By James Jacobs
Player’s 
Guide
REMASTER
Second Edition

AUTHOR
James Jacobs
ADDITIONAL WRITING
Sen H.H.S.
DEVELOPER
James Jacobs
EDITING LEADS
Priscilla N. Lagares and Ianara Natividad
EDITORS
Patrick Hurley and Priscilla N. Lagares
COVER ARTIST
Rodrigo Gonzalez Toledo
INTERIOR ARTISTS
Robert Lazzaretti and Justine Nortjé
ART DIRECTION AND GRAPHIC DESIGN
Sonja Morris
PUBLISHER
Erik Mona
How to Use This Guide	
3
by James Jacobs
What is the Season of Ghosts?	
3
In the Year 7108	
4
Character Suggestions	
5
by James Jacobs
Edicts and Anathemas	
5
Ancestries	
5
Classes	
6
Faiths	
9
Languages	
9
Skills and Feats	
9
Archetypes	
10
Gear	
10
Backgrounds	
10
Table: Suggested Character Options	
14
Home and Heirloom	
15
Willowshore Gazetteer	
15
by Sen H.H.S. and James Jacobs
People of Willowshore	
15
Willowshore Locations	
17
Willowshore Hinterlands	
22
Beyond the Hinterlands	
23
Player’s Guide
Paizo Inc.
15902 Woodinville-Redmond Rd 
NE, Unit B
Woodinville, WA. 98072
paizo.com

How to Use This Guide
Welcome to the Season of Ghosts Adventure Path!
This Player’s Guide will help you prepare for a 
horror-themed campaign set in the rural regions of 
the nation of Shenmen, where your characters are 
hometown heroes who must rise to the occasion and 
defend the people of Willowshore from a sinister curse 
and from all manner of supernatural threats, all while 
also preparing for what might be a particularly cruel 
winter season. You’ll begin as 1st-level characters who, 
if they haven’t lived in Willowshore their whole lives, 
have come to be recognized and welcomed as locals 
after arriving in town in the recent past.
This Adventure Path is split into four parts, each 
taking place during a different season. With every 
passing month, your PCs grow more powerful and the 
threats facing Willowshore grow deadlier and more 
shocking. Season of Ghosts features some particularly 
significant plot twists and revelations, so if you’ve had 
some of these surprises revealed to you already, please 
consider other players’ experiences before spoiling the 
secrets that await discovery during the later parts of 
this Adventure Path!
To play in this campaign, all you need is Pathfinder 
Player Core and a character sheet. With your Game 
Master’s permission, you can also use Pathfinder Second 
Edition supplemental rulebooks, campaign setting 
books, and other accessories to further customize 
your character, especially since this campaign is set on 
the continent of Tian Xia, where the most common 
ancestries, faiths, and other elements aren’t the same as 
those assumed in a campaign set in the Inner Sea region.
On the following pages, you’ll find specific 
suggestions to help you create a new character for 
Season of Ghosts. This Player’s Guide is organized into 
the following sections.
•	 Character 
Suggestions 
(page 
5): 
Guidance, 
practical advice, and specific tips for creating a 
1st-level character that fits seamlessly into this 
campaign.
•	 Willowshore Gazetteer (page 15): Much of what 
you (and your character) need to know about your 
hometown of Willowshore is presented in this 
gazetteer. Your GM has additional information 
about this town, should information you need not 
be present in this section.
WHAT IS THE SEASON OF GHOSTS?
The Season of Ghosts Adventure Path is named for a 
traditional period in Shenmen that takes place during 
the first few weeks of summer, when the woodlands see 
an increase in hauntings, spirits, and undead. While 
the cause of these increased hauntings is uncertain, 
these ghosts often lure people to their deaths.
In Willowshore, a massive feast and festival 
takes place on the last day of spring. Called the 
“Reenactment Festival,” this gala is meant not only 
to celebrate the end of spring, but also to trick the 
evil spirits and ghosts believed to come out of the 
woods during the first few weeks of summer. As 
the festival’s feast concludes, the town reenacts 
victims being snatched away by “ghosts” (played by 
townsfolk in paper masks). Those not involved in 
the faux abduction pretend to plunge into collective 
panic as designated wailers mourn loudly and others 
play out a search and rescue effort. The townfolk 
believe this farce tricks real ghosts into thinking that 
someone has already haunted the settlement and that 
it entices them into seeking happier villages to inflict 
misery on once the season of ghosts begins the next 
day (on the first day of summer).
As fate would have it, your PCs are chosen this year 
to play the role of the town’s abductees—reasons for 
their abduction are built in to the various Season of 
Ghosts backgrounds, so if you don’t use one of these 
backgrounds for your character, work with the GM 
to create a reason similar to those presented there to 
explain why you’re among the festival’s abductees.
Once you’re “abducted” from the feast, your 
captors roll you up in straw mats and carry you 
WHERE (AND WHEN) ON GOLARION?
The Season of Ghosts Adventure Path takes 
place exclusively in a small part of rural 
Shenmen, a haunted nation in the middle of 
the continent of Tian Xia. Specifically, the bulk 
of this adventure takes place in and around 
the town of Willowshore, which is presented in 
further detail beginning on page 15.
Of greater note is the time in which Season 
of Ghosts takes place—unlike other Adventure 
Paths, the events of Season of Ghosts occur 
roughly over the course of a year, starting on 
the first day of summer in the year 7108 ic 
(4608 ar in the Inner Sea region). Notably, it is 
set a hundred years in the past and only a few 
years after the start of the Age of Lost Omens!
Player’s Guide
3

off into a forest clearing on the town’s outskirts, 
where you’re expected to stay overnight. With the 
first dawn of summer, the “abductees” are ransomed 
by whoever is in charge of that year’s Reenactment 
Festival. This year, that honor falls to Choe Chun‑hu, 
the beloved leader of Willowshore’s millers. He 
has promised to bring the “ransom” (a selection 
of delicious breakfast delicacies) to the PCs 
in the forest clearing the next morning for 
them to enjoy before leading them back 
to town to proclaim the Reenactment 
Festival a grand success.
While it often rains during the summer, 
you luck out and spend a relatively 
comfortable night under the stars. Of 
course, staying overnight in any woodland 
carries some risk, and you’ve all have 
plenty of time to prepare for 
it. You can bring all your 
starting items and gear, as 
determined during character 
creation, with you during your 
abduction. Any items not brought 
along will be waiting for you back at home.
The Season of Ghosts Adventure Path begins when 
you and the other PCs awaken in a forest clearing on 
the first day of summer... but there’s no sign of Choe 
Chun-hu or the breakfast he promised!
IN THE YEAR 7108
Season of Ghosts begins on the first day of summer in 
the year 7108, over a century before the current year 
assumed for other Adventure Paths. While playing a 
campaign this far in the past could result in significant 
work to revise the setting in various parts of Golarion, 
Season of Ghosts requires very little work in this 
regard—Willowshore is a remote rural location that, 
for the first several years of the Age of Lost Omens, 
was largely ignored and left to its own devices.
The Age of Lost Omens began in 7106, a time 
during which powerful storms wracked much of 
Golarion. Willowshore was no exception, and the 
winter storms that blasted the region were among 
the worst in memory. Now, two years later, the 
people of Willowshore are somewhat nervous about 
the coming winter season. Even though the winter of 
7107 was relatively mild, memories of the snow, high 
winds, and torrential rains of 7106 linger.
The collapse of the Lung Wa Empire is a less 
immediate concern to Willowshore, even though on 
a larger regional scale, this political upheaval is one 
of the most important events to shape modern Tian 
Xia. While Shenmen’s rule under Lung Wa ended in 
7106, the fact that small towns like Willowshore had 
traditionally been ignored and left to their own devices 
under governors installed by Lung Wa edicts has 
largely sheltered Willowshore from suffering from 
the ramifications of the empire’s collapse. 
Willowshore is fortunate that the governor 
assigned by the empire, a man named Heh 
Shan-Bao, is relatively benign as far as 
tradition goes, and if anything, the lack 
of a yearly tax collector or other imperial 
visitors has resulted in idyllic seasons in 
the rural town. Meanwhile, the mayhem 
of a collapsed empire has led to violence 
and upheaval in more urban areas. 
The largest change that hit 
Willowshore as the result of 
Lung Wa’s collapse was the 
abandonment of the town by 
various lumber lords, who left 
their estates and lumber camps rather 
than continue to supply the demands of the city of Sze, 
the closest large settlement to Willowshore. For the 
people of Willowshore, the loss of these unpleasant 
long-term visitors has been seen almost universally as 
a relief, and the visitors’ manors and lumber camps 
have been left alone, in part out of fear that they could 
return at any time, but mostly because locals believe 
letting these buildings and locations be reclaimed by 
the woods is the most respectful way to usher Lung 
Wa’s influence over Willowshore into memory.
The notion that jorogumo have taken control of 
Shenmen remains, at this point, a “ghost story” or 
“scary rumor.” No jorogumo has visited Willowshore 
yet... at least, as far as anyone knows. Likewise, news 
that the ruler of Sze died and returned as a ghost 
has finally reached town, but not everyone believes 
these stories. The people of Willowshore are content 
to live as they always have—for now!
ABOUT SHENMEN
While some nations in Tian Xia are inspired by 
certain real-life cultures, Shenmen is primarily 
inspired by horror traditions taken from a wide 
range of real‑world stories. It’s a fictional nation 
and isn’t meant to represent more than these 
traditions of supernatural horror. During Shenmen’s 
history, it was conquered by Lung Wa, picked up 
Player’s Guide
4
Heh Shan-Bao

immigrants from Hwanggot, and was taken over by 
jorogumo. It features a mix of cultures as a result, 
and its people have adopted words from multiple 
languages for their names and places. In Shenmen, 
ghosts and monsters are a very real part of life, and 
the practices employed by its people arise from 
necessity, not superstition.
HORROR AND CONSENT
Season of Ghosts is a horror-themed campaign, and 
as such, the GM and players should work together to 
ensure that the themes presented as this Adventure 
Path unfolds are appropriate for the game table. If 
you aren’t comfortable with certain tropes or themes 
common to the horror genre, speak with your GM and 
the other players before beginning Season of Ghosts 
so you can arrive at a common ground where everyone 
at your table can enjoy the campaign equally.
Character Suggestions
The following information provides context for 
creating characters that fit well with the themes present 
in the town of Willowshore and the nation of Shenmen 
and also helps you to build a character that will fit well 
in the overall storyline of Season of Ghosts.
EDICTS AND ANATHEMAS
The heart of Season of Ghosts lies in the town of 
Willowshore, a rural community made up of a couple 
hundred people with varying beliefs and personalities. 
That said, the primary attitude in Willowshore skews 
markedly away from cruelty and other evil acts, and 
a fair amount of this Adventure Path relies on the PCs 
being motivated through compassion to protect their 
fellow townsfolk without any particular promise of 
monetary rewards. As a result, edicts and anthemas that 
promote evil actions or don’t allow for cooperation 
with your fellow townsfolk aren’t a great thematic fit 
for this Adventure Path. As always, though, as long as 
the individual PCs are able to work together and (in 
this case) wish to ensure the prosperity and survival of 
their shared hometown, most edicts and anathemas will 
function just fine. Work with your GM if you suspect 
your PC’s edicts and anathemas might not be a good fit 
for a small-town hero!
ANCESTRIES
As a citizen of the town of Willowshore, the most 
appropriate ancestries to choose for a PC are those that 
are represented significantly in the town.
Common Ancestries
The following ancestries are all represented to a certain 
degree in Willowshore. Humans are far and away 
the most numerous ancestry in Willowshore, with all 
of Tian Xia’s human ethnicities being represented. 
Shenmen’s proximity to nations like Jinin and Kwanlai 
has ensured that a noticeable number of elves, half-elves, 
leshies, and tengu (Pathfinder Player Core 2 32) live in 
the nation’s towns, and Willowshore is no exception. 
Humans of Taldan ethnicity and halflings (largely 
folk emigrated from the nation of Amanandar just 
north of Shenmen) are present in Willowshore as well. 
Kitsune (Pathfinder Lost Omens Ancestry Guide 120) 
and nagaji (Pathfinder Impossible Lands 46) aren’t as 
widespread throughout Shenmen, but they’re present in 
small numbers in Willowshore; note that both of these 
ancestries have a few more options to choose from in 
Pathfinder Lost Omens Tian Xia Character Guide!
Uncommon Ancestries
These ancestries are less common in Willowshore—
there might only be a handful living in town or none at 
all besides potential PCs, but they’re still thematically 
appropriate for Season of Ghosts. You might wish 
to speak to your GM before selecting one of these 
ancestries to give them a chance to potentially adjust 
TENGU ANIMOSITY
While the people of Willowshore harbor no 
intrinsic dislike of their tengu citizens (and 
indeed, some of them, like Kawaka Myna, are 
well-respected business owners), the rulers of 
modern Shenmen, the jorogumo, loathe tengu 
and are known to fly into murderous rages 
when confronted by them. Since Season of 
Ghosts is set at the onset of jorogumo rule over 
Shenmen, remote Willowshore has yet to face 
any jorogumo visitors; as such, tengu PCs won’t 
need to navigate this bitter animosity often. 
Should rumors or news of a jorogumo visit to 
Willowshore arise in the campaign, players of 
tengu characters should take note—your GM 
has advice in the adventures on how to handle 
such situations, so if you have concerns about 
playing a tengu PC, speak to your GM so they 
can provide advice customized to your table in a 
way they feel comfortable with.
Player’s Guide
5

the campaign and give your choice more visibility 
among Willowshore’s citizens.
Dwarves, gnomes, goblins, and orcs aren’t present 
in notable numbers in Willowshore, but any of these 
peoples could have emigrated south from Amanandar 
to settle there.
Dhampirs (Player Core 2 42) would make an 
excellent thematic choice for a horror-themed 
campaign like Season of Ghosts, particularly those 
of the ru-shi lineage (Ancestry Guide 26), who trace 
their vampiric bloodline to a jiang-shi. Some ysoki 
(aka ratfolk; Player Core 2 28) live in Willowshore 
and would also make appropriate PCs.
Nephilim (particularly empyreans who have traveled 
to Shenmen from the nation of Tianjing on the opposite 
shore of the Sea of Ghosts) might have settled in 
Shenmen as well. Cambions who dwell in Shenmen 
are often regarded with fear and suspicion by those in 
Willowshore, but any PCs of such an ancestry in Season 
of Ghosts is already known to the other townsfolk as 
an “exception” to the expectation—speak to your GM 
about integrating such a character into this campaign 
in the event they wish to adjust certain aspects of the 
campaign to reflect your choice.
Hobgoblins (Player Core 2 12) PCs might have come 
to Willowshore from the western nation of Kaoling, 
but like cambions, they are often regarded with fear 
or suspicion.
While there aren’t any duskwalkers (Player Core 
2 48), tsukumogami poppets (Lost Omens Tian Xia 
Character Guide 48), samsarans (Tian Xia Character 
Guide 52), wayangs (Tian Xia Character Guide 70), or 
yaoguai (Tian Xia Character Guide 82) currently living 
in Willowshore, these ancestries still match certain 
themes in Season of Ghosts. Speak with your GM if 
you’re interested in playing one of these ancestries, as 
they might have additional advice for you.
Rare Ancestries
Any other ancestry not mentioned above (or in 
Inappropriate Ancestries below) is considered rare—
while these ancestries can certainly work from a game 
balance perspective, they aren’t particularly on theme 
for Season of Ghosts. If you wish to play a rare ancestry, 
speak with your GM first.
Inappropriate Ancestries
Aquatic ancestries will find themselves literally out of 
their element in Season of Ghosts, as there are very few 
moments for such characters to shine. Willowshore 
is located on the banks of a river and has a lake at 
its heart, so there is a source of water to dwell in, but 
speak with your GM before making such a choice for 
your character.
Androids are inappropriate for this campaign as 
well. Since Season of Ghosts is set roughly 100 years 
before the events of the Iron Gods Adventure Path, 
androids simply haven’t spread far enough beyond 
the borders of Numeria to be logically encountered 
elsewhere in the world. If you wish to play an 
android in Season of Ghosts, you’ll need to work 
with your GM to adjust your game’s canon as needed 
to provide a logical in-world reason for an android’s 
presence in Willowshore.
Finally, as one might guess from the title of this 
Adventure Path, undead ancestries would make for 
particularly awkward choices in Season of Ghosts 
and should not be chosen for a PC.
CLASSES
In Season of Ghosts, your characters are assumed to be 
citizens of Willowshore. While Willowshore only has 
a population of 225 (excluding your PCs!), the town’s 
history and placement make it open toward a wide 
range of potential character classes to be represented 
by its newest cast of heroes.
Alchemists are respected and adored in Willowshore 
for both their skill as herbalists and talent in crafting 
fanciful distractions for festivals. Local herbalist You 
So-Jin of Graveside Manners focuses more on the 
herbalism side of alchemical innovation, but access 
to her alchemist’s lab and supplies, should you earn 
her support and friendship, will be of great use to 
you during the campaign. The chirurgeon research 
field is the most appropriate thematic choice for a 
Willowshore alchemist, but any research field will be 
of equal use in Season of Ghosts.
Animists are, like oracles, a strong thematic choice 
for Season of Ghosts, particularly those who practice 
as mediums or shamans. Apparitions associated with 
rural settings or old folk traditions are the best 
thematic choices, including Custodian of Groves 
and Gardens, Echo of Lost Moments, Impostor in 
Hidden Places, Stalker in Darkened Boughs, and 
Witness to Ancient Battles. Also, see Faiths on page 9 
for additional guidance on religions.
Barbarians might be a complex choice for Season 
of Ghosts considering the lack of any established 
barbarian clans in the region. Though there are no 
such NPCs in Willowshore, there are plenty of locals 
Player’s Guide
6

who enjoy a good fight or appreciate physical strength. 
An animal instinct barbarian might be valued for their 
skills at hunting, while a spirit instinct barbarian might 
find themselves respected as a defender against the evil 
spirits that locals fear (and will certainly find their ability 
to harm incorporeal foes more easily to be a great boon 
during many combat encounters in Season of Ghosts!) 
Other instincts don’t have a particular thematic tie to 
Willowshore, but none of them are particularly poor 
choices overall for this Adventure Path.
Bards will have many opportunities to influence 
NPCs, craft singular performances, or use music to 
their advantage at various points during Season of 
Ghosts, but no specific build is more advantageous 
over another in this Adventure Path. If you select 
enigma as your muse, Tan Sui-Jing (an ancient folk 
hero whose accomplishments in the past are now a part 
of Willowshore’s legacy) or Great Willow (the strange 
kodama kami associated with the towering willow 
tree of the same name that looms atop a hill north of 
town) might be fun choices—speak with your GM to 
find out if any other mysterious muses might make 
sense. In Willowshore, Kazuma Oono, the director who 
runs the Seven-Colored Songbird theater, is known to 
periodically audition performers.
Champions are all appropriate for Season of Ghosts, 
provided their cause doesn’t set them up to clash against 
the rest of the party. The classic example of a ronin who 
settles in a small town and becomes its protector is an 
iconic role for a champion in a campaign like Season 
of Ghosts. While there aren’t many encounters in this 
Adventure Path that require the PCs to be mounted, 
there are be plenty of opportunities in both urban and 
wilderness areas where having a mount in combat 
could be helpful.
Clerics should consider the additional information 
presented under Faiths (page 9) for guidelines on which 
deity to worship.
Commanders aren’t particularly strong thematic 
matches for Season of Ghosts, but like fighters, they’ll 
find many chances to shine during combat. Still, 
remember that there are a lot of non-combat challenges 
in this Adventure Path, so consider focusing some of 
your skill increases on options like Crafting, Diplomacy, 
Intimidation, and Society.
Druids will have ample opportunity to excel in 
Season of Ghosts as a result of the Adventure Path’s 
focus on a year’s worth of seasons and the town 
of Willowshore being a rural location. Temperate 
forests are the primary natural terrain featured in 
this Adventure Path. The druid orders of animal, 
leaf, and storm are the most thematically appropriate 
choices for this Adventure Path, but all orders will 
find opportunities to shine in this campaign. The 
following animals are the most common in the region 
surrounding Willowshore, so choosing one of them as 
your animal companion will also be on theme (if you 
wish to choose a different animal companion, speak to 
your GM about how this animal might have become 
your companion under unusual circumstances): 
arboreal sapling, badger, bat, bear, beetle (Pathfinder 
Lost Omens Grand Bazaar 54), bird, boar, cat, horse, 
snake, or wolf. 
Exemplars might find themselves clashing with the 
small-town themes and setting of Season of Ghosts, so 
make sure to keep the Adventure Path’s rural setting in 
mind. Likewise, since this Adventure Path takes place 
over a century before the events of Godsrain, you’ll 
want to work with your GM to determine where your 
divine spark comes from. When choosing epithets, 
consider the advice featured in Skills on page 9; you 
can work with your GM to narrow down choices as 
well so that they can provide curated, non-spoiler 
guidance as needed.
Fighters will find ample opportunity to shine in 
Season of Ghosts, but it’s important to remember that 
there are a lot of urban and downtime elements in this 
Adventure Path. Consider bolstering your training in a 
skill like Crafting, Diplomacy, Intimidation, or Society 
so that you’ll still have moments to shine during the 
noncombat portions of this Adventure Path.
Guardians will face similar thematic challenges in 
this Adventure Path as commanders do, particularly 
when confronted by the numerous non-combat 
challenges in Season of Ghosts. As with commanders 
and fighters, make sure you’re trained in skills like 
Crafting, Diplomacy, Intimidation, and Society so you 
still have something to work with during these portions 
of the campaign.
Gunslingers aren’t a particularly good choice, 
thematically, for this Adventure Path, and beyond that, 
there are no resources for gunslingers to rely upon in the 
town of Willowshore. If you want to play a gunslinger, 
talk to your GM first, but it’s probably best to save 
your ideas for a gunslinger PC for another campaign.
Inventors aren’t common in Shenmen, but they’re 
hardly unknown, and their knack for rigging up 
contraptions and creative solutions can be quite 
valuable in a rural area like Willowshore where 
access to a wider range of rare or specialized tools 
Player’s Guide
7

and gear aren’t guaranteed. Indeed, Huo Tian-Zhe of 
Willowshore’s smithy, Second Best, is well-known for 
his contraptions and creations, and he could make for 
an excellent ally or friend to a PC inventor. There’s no 
inventor innovation that’s more or less appropriate for 
Season of Ghosts than another.
Investigators will find plenty of opportunities to 
research information, track clues, and unravel mysteries 
during the course of Season of Ghosts, making them 
a particularly excellent choice for this Adventure Path 
overall. The methodologies of alchemical sciences and 
forensic medicine are the most thematically appropriate 
options for this Adventure Path.
Kineticists are a fine choice for Season of Ghosts, 
although there isn’t much thematic support in 
Willowshore for an elemental or kineticist flavor—
if you wish to play a kineticist, speak with your GM 
about potentially adjusting that in some way. In 
particular, a theme of “wood against metal” plays a 
subtle underlying role in this campaign; the people of 
Willowshore more align toward wood, while metal 
aligns more noticeably with certain elements that form 
a part of the campaign’s opposition.
Magi will find their abilities useful throughout 
Season of Ghosts but aren’t particularly tied, 
thematically, to this Adventure Path’s plot. Of course, 
that also means a magus character will be relatively 
free from thematic clashes when making choices 
about their increasing power!
Monks 
are 
a 
strong 
thematic 
choice 
for 
Willowshore, as the town was originally founded to 
serve as support for a remote monastery. While that 
place, the Tan Sugi monastery, is now in ruins and 
no longer operational, a monk’s lifestyle can still be 
exceptionally rewarding in Willowshore proper, if 
only as part of the town’s rich history and legacy. See 
Faiths on page 9 for additional guidance on religion 
or belief.
Oracles are perhaps an even stronger thematic 
choice for Season of Ghosts than clerics as far as divine 
spellcasters are concerned. Most oracle mysteries are 
strong thematic choices in this Adventure Path, with 
Battle, Cosmos, and Flames being the least so. Also, see 
Faiths on page 9 for additional guidance on religions.
Psychics aren’t well represented among Willowshore’s 
citizens, but their magical practices are known and 
admired. Those who focus their studies and powers on 
themes associated with lore, discovering ancient secrets, 
or battling supernatural forces will find themselves 
with no shortage of opportunity in Season of Ghosts.
Rangers are quite valued among Willowshore’s people, 
as their survivalist abilities and hunting acumen help 
the town maintain its self-sufficiency when it comes to 
gathering food. The town’s Silvermist Lodges are the 
traditional locations where local rangers would gather, 
but today, a ranger could be based out of nearly any part 
of town or the hinterlands beyond. If you gain an animal 
companion, consult the suggestions listed for druids on 
page 7. If you take the Favored Terrain feat, the terrain of 
Forest is far and above the most common terrain you’ll 
face during Season of Ghosts. The aquatic (in the form 
of lakes and rivers) and Mountain terrains have much 
more minor roles to play, after which there are even lesser 
roles for Plains, Sky, Swamp, and Underground. Season of 
Ghosts doesn’t feature arctic or desert terrains.
Rogues will find many uses for their skills in 
Season of Ghosts, particularly when it comes to those 
associated with navigating the politics of a small rural 
town. Consider the advice for Skills on page 9 when 
choosing where to focus your training.
Sorcerers are an excellent thematic choice for this 
Adventure Path, as Willowshore is steeped in many 
supernatural and mysterious traditions. All sorcerer 
bloodlines could be equally interesting in Season of 
Ghosts, but the most thematically appropriate ones are 
imperial or undead.
Summoners should consider the local regions (forests, 
with some low mountains and plenty of rivers and lakes) 
when building their eidolon, but apart from that, they’ll 
find they have a wide range of choices available to them 
during Season of Ghosts. The most thematic selections 
for eidolons in this Adventure Path are anger phantom, 
beast, devotion phantom, plant, or psychopomp.
Swashbucklers are like fighters in that they’ll find 
plenty of chances to show their stuff in this campaign’s 
battles, but they should consider also training other 
options to explore during downtime or while in urban 
areas when fighting isn’t the best solution.
Thaumaturges are excellent choices for Season of 
Ghosts. Like the investigator, they’ll be faced with a 
wide range of mysteries and ancient secrets to explore 
and uncover. All thaumaturge implements could find 
thematic links to build from in this campaign, but 
perhaps none more so than the lantern, considering 
Willowshore’s strong tradition with its Eternal Lantern 
(page 18). While you can’t select this particular lantern 
as your implement, a lantern crafted in its image would 
fit right in!
Witches are perhaps an even more thematically 
appropriate choice for a spellcaster than sorcerer for 
Player’s Guide
8

Season of Ghosts due to their ties to a mysterious 
patron and the horror-adjacent themes built right 
into the class. Speak with your GM when choosing 
your patron to receive additional guidance, but the 
patron themes of Faith’s Flamekeeper, The Resentment, 
Silence in Snow, or Wilding Steward are always going 
to be excellent choices for this Adventure Path. When 
choosing a familiar, keep in mind that Willowshore 
is associated with a traditional guardian. Visitors can 
find a large stone spider statue in a shrine just off the 
road along the town’s eastern edge—as such, choosing 
a spider familiar is quite on theme!
Wizards will find their mastery over magic to be 
something the people of Willowshore quite value, 
provided their focus isn’t on something unsettling and 
frightening! That said, all schools of magic will have 
ample opportunities for use during this Adventure 
Path. A PC wizard might wish to pursue an alliance 
or friendship with Igawa Jubei of Mother’s Coil, who 
is Willowshore’s resident wizard and a scholar of all 
things magical.
FAITHS
Willowshore features two temples—one devoted to 
Daikitsu and one to Pharasma—but the townsfolk are 
much more diverse in their faith. In addition to these 
two faiths, both Abadar and Lady Nanbyo count many 
worshippers among their flock, and most townsfolk pay 
homage to a wide range of other deities. Their worship is 
reflected in the large number of small shrines to various 
faiths scattered throughout town. Some of these shrines, 
like those devoted to Daikitsu and Pharasma, are in 
well‑known locations, but many are private shrines or 
shrines that have been all but forgotten.
Shrines to the following deities are found in 
Willowshore; if your character worships one of these 
deities, then they’ll automatically know the location 
of that shrine: Abadar, Calistria, Daikitsu, Desna, 
Ketephys, Kofusachi, Lady Nanbyo, Lao Shu Po, 
Nalinivati, Pharasma, Qi Zhong, Shelyn, Shizuru, 
Tsukiyo, and Yaezhing. If you choose to worship a 
deity beyond those listed here, speak with your GM—
your faith might even result in another shrine being 
added to Willowshore’s list!
Note that certain faiths, such as those of Arazni, 
Casandalee, or Nocticula, either don’t yet exist or 
haven’t yet undergone the significant changes they 
made in the hundred or so years after the start of the 
Age of Lost Omens. Likewise, while Aroden’s death is 
only a few years in the past, his faith isn’t significant 
in Tian Xia—and certainly not in Willowshore. Your 
character should avoid worshipping such deities 
because of Adventure Path’s timeline.
Beyond the town’s wide range of deities, many in 
Willowshore are followers of Sangpotshi. Indeed, the 
original founders of the town were adherents to this 
belief. They built the Tan Sugi monastery up in the hills 
to the west as a remote place to pursue enlightenment 
through this philosophy, and they founded Willowshore 
first to support those who toiled to build the monastery 
and later as a trade hub to support the monks. The 
Tan Sugi monastery is now abandoned and has been 
left to ruin (and, some maintain, to various ghosts and 
monsters), but many in Willowshore still follow the 
path of Sangpotshi.
LANGUAGES
In Season of Ghosts, the primary language spoken is 
Tien—this language is referred to as Common in this 
Player’s Guide and throughout the Season of Ghosts 
Adventure Path. The languages of any of the common 
ancestries listed above (elven, halfling, kitsune, nagaji, 
and tengu) might find frequent use as well.
General-use languages that will be handy to know 
include Aklo, Chthonian, Fey, and Necril.
More specific languages that aren’t as useful for 
the entire campaign but might become situationally 
important for a small number of encounters include 
Draconic, Empyrean, Goblin, Hwan, Minkaian, 
Requian, and Samsaran.
SKILLS AND FEATS
You’ll face a wide range of challenges and opportunities 
in Season of Ghosts, particularly when it comes to 
downtime. This Adventure Path spans an entire year, 
after all, and now and then, you’ll be spending weeks at 
a time pursuing various downtime activities. Skills that 
feature often in combat encounters (or immediately 
following), such as Acrobatics, Athletics, Medicine, 
and Stealth, will be consistently useful throughout the 
campaign, with some of them (particularly Athletics) 
having significant other applications during various 
downtime pursuits.
Of the four skills associated with magical traditions, 
Nature and Religion will have significant opportunities 
to shine throughout the entire Adventure Path. Arcana 
comes into its own more in the second half of this 
four‑part campaign, as does Occultism.
Skills that help with social interaction, such as 
Diplomacy, Intimidation, and Society, will see constant 
Player’s Guide
9

use throughout Season of Ghosts. Deception will often 
be useful in encounter mode, of course, to Create a 
Diversion or Feint, but its chances to shine outside of 
combat are minimal (if important) during the first half 
of the campaign—in the second half, skill at Deception 
becomes much more important.
Being able to subsist or to help the remote town of 
Willowshore with the same goals makes Survival an 
important skill throughout the campaign. Thievery will 
likewise be of great use, both in dealing with hazards 
but also periodically for certain downtime activities or 
for challenges that might require more subtlety.
Crafting becomes an important skill after the first act 
concludes. Thereafter, you’ll increasingly be called upon 
during downtime events and activities to build, repair, 
or otherwise use this skill. While opportunities to use 
Performance to accomplish goals will be less common, 
each adventure will have a few moments where skill in 
this area can solve problems with ease.
An extensive number of Lore skills are helpful in 
this campaign. When a downtime activity becomes 
available, a specific Lore skill will often have a lower DC 
than more generalized skills like Deception or Society. 
The most important Lore skill in this Adventure Path is 
Willowshore Lore, as one would expect of a campaign 
set almost entirely within and around this small town! 
Other important Lore skills that will have more than 
a couple of opportunities to shine in the campaign 
include Academia, Art, Engineering, Farming, Hunting, 
Library, Sangpotshi, and Tea Lore. Lore skills that 
will have only one or two chances to shine include 
any to do with non-tea food or drink, Architecture, 
Cooking, Fishing, Fortune-Telling, Games, Genealogy, 
Guild, Herbalism, Jorogumo, Labor, Mercantile, 
Midwifery, Qi-Zhong, River, Sailing, Scouting, Theater, 
Underworld, and Warfare Lore.
One new lore skill worthy of note that isn’t 
represented in Player Core but that will become 
increasingly useful in this campaign is one associated 
with a specific family of new monster introduced in 
Season of Ghosts. Once your group discovers this new 
type of monster, becoming trained in its lore will help 
you prepare for combat against them or otherwise 
research plot elements to come. That said, not having 
any particular training in this specific Lore skill when 
you begin Season of Ghosts is not only fine, but part 
of the unfolding plot of the campaign. It’s mentioned 
here merely to prepare you for future opportunities for 
those players who enjoy building their character’s level 
choices out beforehand.
You should avoid feats that work best in large cities 
or that rely on long-distance travel beyond what you 
could do in a few days, as these elements don’t play a 
role in Season of Ghosts. Feats that help you to interact 
with other townsfolk, that would bolster your ability to 
be self‑sufficient, or that would generally prove useful 
to anyone living out a year of their life in a remote 
woodland town will be more useful than normal.
ARCHETYPES
As you grow more powerful, the option to select an 
archetype can help you further customize your character 
and make them more thematically appropriate for 
Season of Ghosts. Most multiclass archetypes work 
well for a Season of Ghosts campaign (with the 
exception of gunslinger), while other thematically 
appropriate archetypes from Player Core 2 include 
the following: blessed one (associated with one of 
the deities who have shrines in Willowshore), bounty 
hunter or duelist (particularly when used to create a 
ronin-themed character), herbalist, marshal, or martial 
artist. The ritualist archetype is particularly well-suited 
to this campaign, as Season of Ghosts features a wide 
number of rituals and offers many opportunities to use 
them. Additional archetypes from Lost Omens Tian 
Xia Character Guide that are solid choices include 
spirit warrior and wandering chef.
GEAR
Season of Ghosts takes place in Tian Xia, and as such, 
the following uncommon weapons from Player Core 
are accessible to every PC upon character creation: 
kama, katana, khakkara, nunchaku, sai, shuriken, and 
temple sword.
The following uncommon weapons from Player 
Core 2 are accessible to every PC upon character 
creation: daikyu (advanced weapon), tengu gale blade, 
and wakizashi.
Additionally, all of the weapons listed on page 127 
of the Lost Omens Tian Xia Character Guide are 
available to every PC upon character creation.
BACKGROUNDS
Unlike most Adventure Paths, Season of Ghosts 
takes place almost entirely in and near the town of 
Willowshore and assumes the PCs are all long-term 
citizens of this settlement. As such, it’s likely that your 
PC has family or close friends in town—you should 
work with your GM to create these additional NPCs 
to help populate Willowshore! Each of the custom 
Player’s Guide
10

backgrounds offered in this Player’s Guide comes with 
suggestions as to where your PC lives in town, so you 
can use this to help you decide who in your character’s 
immediate family is in town and who might not be. 
Keep in mind, though, if you decide to have important 
family members located outside of the Willowshore 
hinterlands, you likely won’t be able to visit them 
during this campaign!
When you create a character for Season of Ghosts, 
you can choose one of the following two methods for 
selecting your character’s background.
Standard Background
If you wish to simply pick a standard background 
from Player Core, good thematic choices for Season of 
Ghosts include artisan, bounty hunter, charlatan, cook, 
criminal, detective, entertainer, farmhand, gambler, 
guard, herbalist, hermit, hunter, laborer, martial 
disciple, merchant, scholar, teacher, street urchin, and 
warrior.
Additional standard backgrounds are available in 
Player Core 2; good thematic choices from that book 
include pilgrim, root worker, servant, or ward.
Seasonal Boon: Instead of gaining a specific seasonal 
boon (an additional benefit that characters who choose 
Season of Ghosts backgrounds gain), you instead gain 
the option to, once per season (summer, fall, winter, or 
spring—thus, once per act during Season of Ghosts), 
gain a +4 status bonus to a check attempted to resolve 
any downtime activity; you can choose to apply this 
bonus after you roll the check.
Season of Ghosts Backgrounds
The six new backgrounds presented on the following 
pages are available to all characters in the Season of 
Ghosts Adventure Path. Each of these rare backgrounds 
is tailor-made to match the themes of this Adventure 
Path and includes a bit of flavor about the Reenactment 
Festival and why you were chosen to be one of the 
festival’s abductees.
Seasonal Boon: Each of these backgrounds grants 
you a seasonal boon. You can use a seasonal boon at 
any time as a free action (with a trigger as described in 
your background), but only once per season (summer, 
fall, winter, spring—corresponding to the four acts of 
the Season of Ghosts Adventure Path; your GM can 
let you know when a new act begins and your boon is 
available for use once more). If you don’t use a seasonal 
boon during an act, that use is lost—unused seasonal 
boons don’t carry over into the next act.
CLOSE TIES	
BACKGROUND
RARE
You’ve forged a close friendship with one of Willowshore’s 
notable citizens, and you have a long tradition of sharing 
tea with each other while chatting about shared interests, 
plans for the future, town gossip, or other matters of note. 
Work with your GM to choose one of the NPCs mentioned 
in the Willowshore Gazetteer (other than Granny Hu or Old 
Matsuki)—your GM might have suggestions for which NPC 
makes the most sense for your character or might know 
something about an NPC’s eventual role in the campaign 
that would give your character a compelling story beat. 
You could be an employee or apprentice of this NPC, a 
close relation or friend, or even a friendly competitor in 
some way.
Your home is likely relatively close to the place of 
business or home of your NPC ally.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely spent time 
with your NPC ally and might have made plans to get 
together the next day on the first day of summer, perhaps 
to have tea together. You were chosen to be an abductee 
during the Reenactment Festival because your NPC friend 
or ally suggested the experience would be fun or good for 
you, or because they’d done it the previous year at your 
urging and now “it’s your turn.”
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Charisma or 
Intelligence, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Tea Lore 
skill. You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat (choose a 
specialty associated with your allied NPC), and your allied 
NPC begins with an attitude of friendly toward the party 
(rather than indifferent, which is the initial norm for all 
Willowshore NPCs).
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger Someone in the party makes 
an NPC in Willowshore friendly; Effect Your reputation 
precedes you, even if you aren’t the one making the attempt 
to influence an NPC. The NPC is made helpful instead of 
friendly. Making an NPC helpful can unlock additional 
support from their location in Willowshore—your GM has 
more information about this mechanic.
FOLKLORE ENTHUSIAST	
BACKGROUND
RARE
Willowshore is a small town in a rural part of Shenmen, 
but that doesn’t exempt it from the world of the strange 
and unexplained. There are plenty of mysterious 
events and haunting legends about Willowshore or its 
hinterlands, and as a result of your upbringing, you’ve 
become particularly interested in learning more about 
them. While much of the regional folklore comes from one 
Player’s Guide
11

of Willowshore’s many religions and local faiths (of which 
you might be a practicing member or perhaps instead have 
a secular interest in the lore), you’ve noticed that these 
beliefs also influence artisans and crafters in ways they 
might not even realize. You’re convinced that many of 
these local beliefs have roots in a deeper, historical event 
of great significance and hope one day to learn more about 
Willowshore’s true history.
If you’re religious, your home is likely near a shrine 
associated with your faith—if your faith isn’t represented 
among Willowshore’s shrines, speak with your GM about 
potentially having a shrine to your faith in or near to your 
home.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely spent time 
chatting with others about ghost stories and sharing 
spooky legends and tales. You weren’t chosen to be an 
abductee during the Reenactment Festival so much as 
you volunteered, eagerly, for the chance—you might have 
even participated in previous years as an abductee!
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to 
Intelligence or Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Religion skill and the Art Lore 
skill. You gain the Oddity Identification skill feat.
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger You’re about to roll any check 
to Recall Knowledge; Effect You have a flash of insight as 
you recall an old parable, obscure legend, or applicable 
tale to the topic at hand. This Recall Knowledge check 
loses the secret trait. Increase the result of your check to 
Recall Knowledge by one degree of success.
NORTHRIDGE SCHOLAR	
BACKGROUND
RARE
The political faction of Northridge is focused on modern 
pragmatism and urban growth. While there are certainly 
those in this faction who regard those of Southshore as 
rubes, bumbling yokels, or stubborn traditionalists who 
would prefer Willowshore never grow, most of those 
following this local faction instead put their energy into 
developing Willowshore, envisioning a time when the town 
might grow into an important hub for trade. Your interests 
lie more along the concept of Willowshore as a place for 
learning—a school, library, or even small university could 
do so much for your town! Of course, as invigorating as it 
is to study and learn, you also understand that expanding 
Willowshore in such a way will require lots of hard work, 
and your childhood helping to lay foundations or raise 
buildings has given you a physique that eludes the typical 
scholar.
Your home is likely somewhere along the northern banks 
of the Ceiba River to the east of downtown Willowshore.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely helped to run 
some of the festivities or spent time simply sitting back to 
people-watch. You volunteered to be an abductee during the 
Reenactment Festival because the experience of taking part 
in one of the town’s longest-running traditions is an honor 
you’ve always wanted to experience.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Constitution 
or Strength, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and the Academia Lore 
skill. You gain the Additional Lore feat.
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger The party’s reputation with 
Northridge increases; Effect Increase the party’s reputation 
with Northridge by an additional 2 points (your GM has 
information about Willowshore reputation).
OUTSKIRT DWELLER	
BACKGROUND
RARE
While Willowshore is a lovely small town, even a 
population of 200 is a bit much for you. Whether you 
grew up in the town’s outskirts, or you grew frustrated 
and overwhelmed with town life and decided to move 
to the fringes, you’re only really at home when you’re 
surrounded by nature. You don’t look down on those 
who live in town, and you might be among the hunters, 
trappers, fishers, or herbalists who provide important 
support to those who lack such forestry skills.
Your home is on the outskirts of Willowshore and might 
not even be represented by an actual building on the map. 
With the GM’s permission, you might even dwell in a small 
building further out in the Willowshore hinterlands, but no 
further than a couple of miles from town.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely showed up 
late and weren’t intending to stay for long, but your friends 
and allies (the other PCs) convinced you to stick around. 
You were chosen to be an abductee during the Reenactment 
Festival at the last minute when someone else had to back 
out (perhaps as a result of overindulging during the feast), 
and your friends (the other PCs) convinced you to join them 
on what would be a fun, shared experience. Since it involves 
sleeping out under the stars in the woods, well, that’s a 
pretty lovely way to end an evening!
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Wisdom, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Nature skill and the Hunting Lore 
skill. You gain the Terrain Expertise (forest) skill feat.
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger You’re about to roll initiative; 
Effect Something about the situation triggers your 
defenses, allowing you to react to sudden peril more 
quickly. You gain a status bonus to your initiative roll 
equal to the number of seasons since you’ve started 
Player’s Guide
12

Season of Ghosts (+1 during summer, up to a maximum of 
+4 during spring in the Adventure Path’s final act). If you 
can communicate a warning to other PCs, they gain this 
bonus to their initiative as well.
SOUTHBANK TRADITIONALIST	
BACKGROUND
RARE
The political faction of Southbank represents the original 
founders of Willowshore, a hearty band of settlers 
whose skills and focus tend toward the earthly and 
humble. While there are certainly those in this faction 
who regard Northridge as vapid urbanites, merchants, 
and power-hungry politicians, most in Southbank devote 
their energy to helping Willowshore stay fed, honoring 
its long-standing traditions, and remaining relatively 
self-sufficient. Your interests in Willowshore’s history 
are closely tied to the traditions of farming and building 
what you need with your own two hands, as well as taking 
part in the shared oral history of the region. Whether 
it’s enjoying discussions with local elders about the past 
or helping newcomers learn Willowshore’s ways, you’re 
always eager to help uphold the town’s traditions.
Your home is likely located south of the Ceiba River, on 
the southernmost outskirts of town.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely spent time 
helping to set up the feasts, assisted in running some of 
the events, and otherwise worked behind the scenes. You 
were chosen to be an abductee during the Reenactment 
Festival because you lost a bet, owed a favor, or otherwise 
got pressured or tricked into the role by a family member, 
friend, or coworker. Perhaps someone who was going to 
be one of the abductees but had to back out at the last 
moment, so you ended up taking their place.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Charisma or 
Constitution, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Farming Lore 
skill. You gain the Hobnobber feat.
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger The party’s reputation with 
Southbank increases; Effect Increase the party’s reputation 
with Southbank by an additional 2 points (your GM has 
information about Willowshore reputation).
WILLOWSHORE URCHIN	
BACKGROUND
As with any settlement, not all of Willowshore’s citizens 
are born into easy lives. You grew up on the town streets, 
either as an orphan or hardscrabble youth who was 
forced at a young age to help provide for your family. 
You might technically have had a home of your own, but 
for various reasons, you had, or preferred, to live most 
of your childhood outside of those walls. You might have 
run with a gang of kids (some of whom might even be 
fellow PCs), or you could’ve been a loner who managed 
to survive against all odds. Regardless, your childhood 
was one of forced ingenuity, desperation, and physicality. 
Hardly a week would’ve passed without you having to 
jury-rig a solution to some problem or to simply use your 
reflexes or brawn to solve a situation quickly before 
things escalated. While you might have left your old life 
behind you now that you’re all grown up, the time you 
spent on Willowshore’s streets has made you the person 
you are today.
You might still be technically homeless, subsisting on the 
street and never sleeping in the same place twice in a row. 
You might keep a small shanty or hideout somewhere in 
town as well. It’s also possible that, despite your childhood, 
you’ve been fortunate enough to find a family or home, in 
which case your home could be anywhere in Willowshore.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely enjoyed the 
revelry... perhaps a bit too much! Festivals were always 
times of excitement in your childhood, and this one is no 
exception. You were chosen to be an abductee during the 
Reenactment Festival simply by chance—maybe your name 
was selected by a blind draw, or perhaps someone dared you 
to take part, or you could simply have craved the attention.
Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Strength, and one is a free attribute boost.
You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the Engineering 
Lore skill. You gain the Charming Liar feat.
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger You (or an adjacent PC) are 
about to roll a recovery check; Effect You gain an automatic 
critical success on the recovery check rather than rolling it 
as your hearty physique, tenacious attitude, or just plain 
old luck continues to help you survive the way it had during 
your childhood. If you’re adjacent to a PC who’s about to roll 
a recovery check, you can instead use this boon to grant 
them this effect.
Background Adjustments
You can add one of the following two adjustments to 
any background (including a Common one) to further 
modify your choice to match your vision for your PC.
Family: You and one (or more) other PCs are close 
family members (siblings, parent/child, married, etc.). 
If you take this adjustment, the other PC(s) who are 
your family must also take this adjustment. Choose one 
of the following to replace the skill feat you otherwise 
would’ve gained from your background. (You and your 
sibling need not share the same choice—a sibling who 
wants to keep their background’s skill feat can pick 
“Typical” from the list.)
Player’s Guide
13

Bickering: You have a long-standing feud with 
your sibling(s). Whenever your sibling(s) critically 
fail a significant skill check or attack roll and you 
witness their failure, you gain a +1 status bonus to 
your saving throws until the end of your next turn 
as you secretly (or perhaps not so secretly) delight 
in their failure.
Close-Knit: You and your sibling(s) work well 
together, and you go all-out to help them when 
they’re badly hurt. When you provide Aid or 
Administer First Aid to your sibling(s), the DC is 5 
lower than normal.
Typical: You have a standard relationship with 
your sibling(s); don’t change your background’s 
skill feat.
Foundling: You aren’t a native to Willowshore, but 
you did grow up in the town. You might have adoptive 
parents, or you could’ve grown up on the streets. 
Choose one of the following to replace the bonus feat 
you otherwise would’ve gained from your background.
Bitter: You appreciate the town of Willowshore 
but still resent the conditions that resulted in you 
being abandoned or left in the town. You gain the 
Intimidating Glare skill feat.
Mysterious: You keep secrets, and very few in 
Willowshore (if anyone) know your history before 
SUGGESTED CHARACTER OPTIONS
Ancestries
Classes
Languages
Skills
Archetypes
Strongly 
Recommended
Humans, elves, 
half-elves, halflings, 
kitsune, leshies, 
nagaji, tengu
Animist, bard, 
champion, druid, 
investigator, monk, 
oracle, ranger, rogue, 
thaumaturge, witch
Common (Tian)
Athletics, Diplomacy, 
Nature, Religion, 
Society, Willowshore 
Lore
Ritualist
Recommended
Other core 
ancestries, dhampirs, 
duskwalkers, 
hobgoblins, leshies, 
nephilim, ratfolk, 
samsarans
Alchemist, cleric, 
fighter, magus, 
psychic, sorcerer, 
summoner, 
swashbuckler, wizard
Aklo, Chthonian, 
Elven, Fey, Halfling, 
Kitsune, Necril
Arcana, Crafting, 
Deception, 
Intimidation, 
Occultism, Survival, 
Thievery
Blessed one, bounty 
hunter, duelist, 
herbalist, marshal, 
martial artist, spirit 
warrior, wandering 
chef
Appropriate
All other ancestries 
(save those below)
All other classes 
(save those below)
Draconic, Empyrean, 
Goblin, Hwan, 
Minkaian, Nagaji, 
Requian, Samsaran, 
Tengu
Acrobatics, Medicine, 
Performance, Stealth
All other archetypes 
(save those below)
Not
Recommended
Androids, aquatic 
ancestries
Gunslinger
All others
—
Assassin, gunslinger 
multiclass, pirate, 
vigilante, viking
ABOUT YOUR FAMILY
Although Willowshore is your character’s 
home, and they might have close family 
dwelling in town, Season of Ghosts doesn’t 
incorporate any potential PC family members 
into the adventure plots at all. If your character 
has parents, siblings, children, romantic 
partners, or other family living with them in 
Willowshore, talk with your GM about whether 
you’d like them to play purely a background role 
or, with the GM’s aid, take up a more integral 
part of the campaign’s plot. In particular, let 
your GM know if you’re comfortable potentially 
having family members become threatened by 
elements in Season of Ghosts, and make sure 
the other players are okay with this element 
as well. Again, there are no plot elements in 
Season of Ghosts that directly imperil any PC’s 
family (beyond the existential peril facing all 
of Willowshore’s inhabitants), but for some 
players and groups, involving family in stories 
like this one can make the experience more 
challenging and rewarding.
Player’s Guide
14

you settled in the town, in part because you’ve 
taken to learning about Willowshore by watching 
rather than engaging in conversation. You gain the 
Streetwise skill feat.
Outgoing: You’re grateful for the sense of 
belonging the townsfolk of Willowshore have 
extended to you and always do your best to 
repay that kindness. Once per week when you 
attempt a skill check to resolve a downtime 
activity that could benefit Willowshore (several 
of these activities are detailed in the adventures, 
and your GM can always make the call if 
another activity would qualify) and you fail that 
check, you instead succeed at the check, or if you 
critically fail at that check, you instead simply 
fail that check.
HOME AND HEIRLOOM
The final step for creating your Season of Ghosts 
character is to choose where you live in Willowshore. 
The town map presented on page 16 shows all of the 
buildings in Willowshore. If you chose a Season of 
Ghosts background, that choice suggests where in 
Willowshore your home is most likely to be located, 
but you need not be limited by this suggestion—you 
can pick any unlabeled smaller building on the map as 
your character’s home (note that your GM might have 
suggestions or plans for certain buildings beyond the 
expected scope of the adventure, so before you settle on 
your home, you’ll need GM approval).
Once you’ve chosen your home, pick one of the 
following four sets of treasure. When you start 
Season of Ghosts, the treasure you selected is still 
stored back home. While you won’t have access to 
it when the first adventure begins, it won’t be long 
into the adventure before each PC will have the 
opportunity to return home and gather their family 
treasures for use!
When selecting these treasures, each player must 
choose a different option—only if there are more than 
four players in the group can you choose a treasure 
already selected by another player.
•	 Two minor healing potions and one piece of 
common adventuring gear worth 2 gp or less of 
the PC’s choice.
•	 One predictable silver piece (Player Core 2 307) 
and a vial containing one dose of oil of potency.
•	 Supplies for an alarm snare, 10 sp, and two lesser 
ghost charges (Player Core 2 285).
•	 One cold-iron chunk worth 10 gp.
Willowshore Gazetteer
In 7020, the Tan Sugi monastery was founded by a 
Sangpotshi monk named Zhi Hui. Built around an 
ancient sugi tree said to have mystic properties, the 
Tan Sugi monastery was incredibly remote, nestled 
in a wooded valley within an unsettled reach of 
Specterwood. Willowshore was originally founded to 
support those who built the monastery, and the long 
trail that connected the town to the monastery became 
known as the Pilgrim’s Path. Once construction of 
the monastery ended, Willowshore’s focus shifted 
to an increasingly self-sufficient lifestyle that only 
periodically needed to support the monks.
Zhi Hui passed away in 7054, and as the monks of 
the monastery began to drift away, Willowshore itself 
shifted focus to the lumber industry. By 7060, the 
monastery had been abandoned, but when a group 
of woodcutters attempted to harvest the ancient sugi 
trees that grew there in 7062, tragedy struck. The 
woodcutters returned to Willowshore with broken 
weapons and unliving bodies that evening, and 
while these undead woodcutters were defeated by 
morning, dozens of townsfolk had perished during 
the struggle. The event is remembered today as the 
“Night of Broken Blades,” and few visitors have 
made the journey to the ruined monastery in the 46 
years since. The place is regarded now as cursed, 
haunted, or worse.
THE EIGHT PRACTICES
The people of Willowshore follow these eight 
bits of advice during the first several weeks of 
summer—the season of ghosts. These beliefs are 
primarily local superstitions, and their capacity 
to actually help in an encounter with any sort of 
malicious spirit is hotly debated.
1.	 Do not call a ghost a ghost.
2.	Do not pat people on the head or shoulders.
3.	Avoid entering bodies of water when a ghost 
is nearby.
4.	Do not eat food that has two stick-like objects 
protruding from it.
5.	Do not lean against walls during the day. 
6.	Do not whistle at night.
7.	Do not leave laundry out at night.
8.	If you hear someone call your name from 
behind you at night, do not turn around.
Player’s Guide
15

As the years wore on, Shenmen officially enlisted 
Willowshore to become part of Lung Wa’s lumber 
harvesting ambitions. Things started out well, with 
the construction of infrastructure including bridges 
and a dam. However, the lumber bosses who ran the 
harvesting operation soon became loathed for their 
exploitation of Willowshore’s ascetic past. Worse, they 
began to present the settlement (now properly called a 
town) as a “getaway” for Lung Wa aristocrats to hunt 
for sport and indulge in food and drinks forcefully 
seized in the empire’s name.
When Lung Wa collapsed in 7106, Willowshore’s 
lumber lords took their wealth, abandoned their 
estates, and fled. Most of the soldiers stationed in 
town returned to Shenmen’s capital or deserted their 
posts, leaving behind those who had put down local 
roots. Willowshore’s remoteness saved it from rampant 
banditry and external political conflicts that had begun 
to plague Shenmen, but as you will soon discover when 
you begin to play Season of Ghosts, the time has come 
for Willowshore to face the new world.
PEOPLE OF WILLOWSHORE
Most of Willowshore’s citizens identify by when their 
family first settled in town, often affecting which 
bank of the Ceiba River they live on. The first wave 
of townspeople were either those who worked on the 
monastery or were paid to settle in Willowshore by 
the monastery. These folks originally lived south of the 
river and are thus referred to as Southbankers. Those 
who arrived after Lung Wa took control, meanwhile, 
settled on the river’s northern banks, called Northridge 
due to its prominent incline. These settlers included 
workers for the lumber bosses, businesses that wanted 
convenient access to the lumber, and imperial guards. 
Though these two factions in Willowshore today 
use the names Southbank and Northridge, one’s 
allegiance isn’t solely determined by where they live or 
work. Southbank residents are traditionalists, keen on 
maintaining Willowshore’s culture and living simply 
off the land. Northridge residents, meanwhile, focus on 
pragmatism and urban growth. Many in Northridge 
are open to the idea of jorogumo ruling Shenmen, 
while Southbankers on principle think jorogumo are 
evil monsters and best avoided.
Despite disagreements, both sides have a consensus 
on putting Willowshore’s survival and safety first. 
Plenty of residents have their own opinions that lean in 
WILLOWSHORE
WILLOWSHORE
W17
W17
W11
W11
W9
W9
W26
W26
W15
W15
W5
W5
W10
W10
W13
W13
W14
W14
W12
W12
W8
W8
W7
W7
W5
W5
W6
W6
W4
W4
W3
W3
W2
W2
W1
W1
W20
W20
W21
W21
W24
W24
W22
W22
W23
W23
W30
W30
W29
W29
W19
W19
W16
W16
W27
W27
W28
W28
W25
W25
W18
W18
Ceiba Creek
Ceiba Creek
Ceiba River
Ceiba River
 Duyue River
 Duyue River
1200 FEET
1200 FEET
Player’s Guide
16

neither direction and consider themselves unaffiliated 
with either faction. Overall, Willowshore values giving 
all one has to offer. In many ways, the village has no 
choice, especially as the events of this adventure evolve.
As you play Season of Ghosts, your actions and 
choices as a group will build reputation with these 
two factions; your GM has all the rules and guidance 
needed to track reputation and implement its effects 
in the game as play progresses.
Current trending topics in Willowshore 
focus on the recent exodus of the lumber 
lords, rumors of jorogumo seizing control 
of the nation, and preparations for the 
upcoming season of ghosts.
WILLOWSHORE
SETTLEMENT 4
TOWN
Isolated lumber town
Government Appointed governor 
(Heh Shan-Bao)
Population 225 (73% humans, 
6% half-elves, 4% halflings, 4% 
kitsune, 3% elves, 3% tengu, 
2% nagaji, 5% others)
Languages Common (Tien), Elven, 
Halfling, Minatan, Nagaji, Tengu, Tian-hwa, 
Tian-min
Religions Abadar, Daikitsu, Lady Nanbyo, Pharasma, 
Sangpotshi, others (represented by small shrines)
Threats malicious spirits, ravenous vermin, struggling 
self‑sufficiency, supernatural influences, territorial beasts
Teeth-Clenching Teamwork Willowshore’s residents help 
one another despite differences. You can attempt to 
Request help from another Willowshore resident even if 
they’re indifferent or unfriendly, but you do so with a –2 
circumstance penalty.
“Granny” Hu Ban-niang (intimidating female Tian-shu 
retired guard captain) retired imperial guard captain
“Old” Matsuki Shou (nostalgic male Tian-shu family 
patriarch) retired carpenter and Willowshore’s living 
history
Heh Shan-Bao (nervous male Tian-shu governor) appointed 
administrator of Willowshore
WILLOWSHORE LOCATIONS
Significant buildings and important people found in 
Willowshore are detailed on the following pages, with 
numbers corresponding to the locations on the map on 
page 16. Unlabeled buildings are wooden structures that 
might be shops, homes, farmhouses, storerooms, or have 
other usage depending on their location and, with the 
GM’s permission, can be selected as homes for any PC.
W1. Eternal Blaze Ironworks
In the days of the monastery’s construction, the 
Eternal Blaze Ironworks was responsible for creating 
metal items from cookware, woodworking tools, and 
small metal parts, such as hinges, locks, and keys for 
chests. Yong Wu-Xiu (industrious female kitsune 
blacksmith) inherited the business from her 
father about a decade ago.
Wares: metalworks, adventuring gear 
(especially cookware), metal armor, metal 
weapons, metal shields
W2. Willowshore Stables
Willowshore Stables is the town’s veterinary 
facility for household animals, pets, and 
livestock. Incidentally, Willowshore 
Stables’ use of livestock as beasts of 
burden influenced the village’s food 
culture, causing many households 
to avoid the consumption of 
beef. The owner, Kum Soon-chong 
(caring male human veterinarian), 
and his teenage son, Meng-sung (dutiful 
male human veterinarian), are well-known for their 
affable attitudes and compassion for all kinds of 
animals.
Wares: animal rentals, barding, saddle bags, land 
vehicles
W3. Abadar Shrine
This elegant shrine houses a 3-foot-tall limestone 
statue of Abadar that holds a shovel in one hand and 
a trowel in the other. The statue was reportedly taken 
to Goka first to ritualistically invite Abadar’s divine 
blessings at the Grand Bank before being ferried back 
to Willowshore.
W4. Graveside Manners
Willowshore’s residents practiced cremation in its 
early days to prevent undeath. The tombs in this old 
cemetery house the urns of many of those early settlers. 
Today, only a few families use Graveside Manners as 
a burial ground. The headstones remain free of lichen 
and moss thanks to the graveyard’s keeper, You So-
Jin (mysterious female elf herbalist). Once a pilgrim 
who frequented the Tan Sugi monastery, So-Jin settled 
in Willowshore after the monastery’s collapse and 
Player’s Guide
17
Old Matsuki

maintains an herbalist shop—the primary reason 
anyone visits Graveside Manners today.
Wares: alchemical elixirs and tools, alchemical 
reagents, fresh and dried herbs
W5. Silvermist Lodges
The Silvermist Lodges are split between two small 
compounds in the woods south of town. At each 
location, the lodges’ woodwork conforms to 
the grain of the wood, giving the buildings 
an organic look associated with elven 
architecture. In the days when Willowshore 
first tried to become self‑sufficient, eight elven 
adventurers came and took up an offer to 
settle in the village, seeing the request as 
a short-term contract given their life spans. 
Though none of these original eight elves live in 
Willowshore anymore, they left many offspring 
and descendants behind.
Wares: animal parts, snare supplies
W6. Matsuki Estate
The man that Willowshore calls “Old” 
Matsuki (nostalgic male human carpenter) 
once apprenticed to the head carpenter 
of the Tan Sugi monastery. After taking leave from 
his master, he led his family to construct a large 
Tian-shu/Minkaian estate to house all two 
dozen of them. Reportedly, the superstitious 
patriarch then made sure that the outer 
walls were whitewashed with limestone 
containing blessed salts and holy water. 
Today, Old Matsuki is the most influential of 
Willowshore’s Southbank faction and serves 
as the faction’s spokesman.
W7. Thrice-Blessed Inn
Willowshore’s 
Thrice-Blessed 
Inn began as the Thrice‑Blessed 
Brothel, for it was founded 
by three clerics of Kofusachi, 
Calistria, and Shelyn. Political 
complications forced the brothel’s 
owner, Mother Otis (canny genderfluid half-
elf innkeeper), to shut down the establishment only a 
few years before Lung Wa’s collapse. With the aid of 
Willowshore’s local lawyer, Luo Xi Yang, Mother Otis 
was able to rely upon an obscure law that prevented 
their eviction and allowed them to continue to operate 
the building as an inn.
W8. Milling Houses
Willowshore has numerous millhouses, including 
two powered by water, three by wind, and 
ten powered by people or draft animals. 
The abundance ensures that losing one or 
two mills to routine maintenance or malfunction never 
jeopardizes the village’s needs.
Work at the mills is intense, and the hours can 
be irregular due to the demand each day. The 
millers’ leader, Choe Chung-hu (supportive 
male human miller), keeps morale high 
with encouragement, pushing back against 
unreasonable demands, keeping wages 
stable, and offering midnight snacks.
Wares: De-husked grain, grain flour, stone 
objects
W9. Nine Ear Shrine
This 
mud-wall 
hut 
looks 
like 
a grain storage hut from the 
outside. Its interior descends 10 
feet underground into an enclosed 
space lined with stone, in the middle 
of which sits a 15-foot‑tall marble statue 
of a nine‑tailed fox. A large spiritual rope made of 
hay hangs off its neck. The walls of the basement are 
decorated with painted carvings that depict stories of 
Daikitsu.
Fifteen years ago, a desperate mother of the Ouh 
family hid her baby here as the family was rounded 
THE ETERNAL LANTERN
This minor artifact is an immobile object gifted 
to the town of Willowshore by the founder 
of the Tan Sugi monastery, Zhi Hui. For the 
town’s entire history, the Eternal Lantern has 
stood sentinel near the settlement’s heart, 
its light never wavering after Zhi Hui placed 
a few copper coins within it. Some believe 
that it’s possible to receive blessings 
from the deities whose shrines stand 
in Willowshore by placing copper coins 
within the Eternal Lantern in exchange for 
additional protection, but for the most part, 
the people of Willowshore have become 
used to the ever-burning lantern at the 
southern steps of Dawnstep Bridge.
Player’s Guide
18
Elizeth Candora
Eternal Lantern

up for execution by a corrupt guard. By the time the 
guards learned about the missing offspring, a large 
skulk of foxes had surrounded the temple. Unwilling to 
tempt divine wrath, the guards retreated. Allies of the 
family soon arrived to rescue the baby, at which point 
the foxes vanished.
That baby, Ba-Ming Ouh (devoted female 
human priest), grew up under the care of 
distant relatives. While she shows signs of 
the Ouh family’s inclinations toward the 
veneration of nature, Ba-Ming wishes to 
return her life debt by serving Daikitsu. 
While some question her intentions, 
most Willowshorers support her 
dedication.
Wares: 
fulus, 
scrolls, 
talismans
W10. Lady of Souls
One of Lung Wa’s chief concerns when 
they first expanded into Willowshore was to reduce 
the likelihood of an undead uprising. They solved it by 
building a cathedral to Pharasma.
Elizeth Candora (empathetic female human cleric), 
a second-generation Taldan from Goka, is the current 
priestess here. Having once visited Willowshore and 
the Tan Sugi monastery as a child, Elizeth never 
imagined that becoming a cleric of Pharasma would 
lead to an opportunity for her to permanently 
return to the village she vividly recalls. She sees the 
coincidence as fate arranged by Pharasma’s hands and 
therefore serves dutifully and diligently. She’s fond of 
spending time alone in the graveyard with her flute 
and often plays the instrument there to help soothe 
the spirits of those recently buried therein.
Wares: consumable religious items, divine scrolls
W11. Dawnstep Bridge
After the Thrice-Blessed Brothel was established (but 
before it became an inn), Willowshore’s population 
had grown enough in size to be considered a town by 
Shenmen standards, meaning that a lit lantern must 
be maintained at all times within the town near the 
entrance, at a major crossroads, or at a bridge. The 
lack of a lit lantern at one of these locations suggests 
that the town is abandoned, which is believed to invite 
vermin, ghosts, dangerous beasts, and worse. Today, 
Willowshore features two such lanterns, but the one 
that stands here, the Eternal Lantern, is both its oldest 
and most notable.
W12. Industrial District
Willowshore’s Lung Wa lumber bosses had a host of 
other businesses related to materials taken from the 
woods. Many industrial workers came to Willowshore 
explicitly for this work, leaving family and friends 
behind.
After the lumber bosses left, Governor Heh 
seized control and ordered the laborers to 
continue working. Upset that they had 
no choice in the matter, they’ve been 
gathering late at night under the 
guidance of Kawaka (devoted male tengu 
guild leader), a senior bookmaker, to discuss 
how they should negotiate with the governor 
to release those who want to leave and 
fairly pay those who elect to stay.
With the collapse of Lung Wa, 
many of the businesses that once 
thrived here have closed up shop. The 
only ones still functioning are Cloud Paper 
House (a paper mill run by Kawaka), Jadeite Essentials 
(a distillery), and Rebel’s Leatherworks (a tannery).
Wares: alcohol, essential oils and perfume, glassware 
and glass items, hide and leather items, paper and 
paper products such as spellbooks and formula books
W13. Woodraft Lake
The first governor appointed to Willowshore by Lung 
Wa made an effort to tame the notorious Ceiba River 
through various engineering feats. Part of that effort, 
plus the demand for wet storage for wood, led to 
the construction of the Willowshore Dam—and by 
extension, Woodraft Lake.
Many protested the construction at first, as the 
resulting lake would submerge some homes and 
farmlands—including the village’s shrine to Lady 
Nanbyo. A few imprisonments later, all complaints 
ceased. The dam was completed in due time. While 
the governor earned themself a promotion and left 
Willowshore soon after, they didn’t get to enjoy before 
a landslide buried them on a bright sunny day. While 
the story’s veracity is somewhat dubious, subsequent 
governors have never stopped Willowshore’s villagers 
from treating the lake as a shrine to the Widow of 
Suffering.
W14. Willowshore Dam
Willowshore’s dam is a minor engineering marvel. Its 
main body is constructed out of immense, precisely 
fitted slabs of dark‑gray marble, carved with a carefully 
Player’s Guide
19
Zheng Peng

calculated curvature. The dam has two giant wooden 
gates that can be closed or opened to lower the level 
of the lake. Turning the wheel that controls the gates 
automatically causes a bell to ring, signaling anyone 
downriver to move away to safety.
W15. Downtown Willowshore
Downtown Willowshore remains a major 
hub of activity in town. To the northeast 
stands the governor’s home and office, 
which also serves as the village’s bank 
and treasury. South of the manor lie the 
imperial barracks, commanded by Zheng 
Peng (stoic male human watch officer). 
To the north of the crossroad is the 
stage for the village’s weekly Shu 
Opera performance, which is part 
of the Seven-Colored Songbird 
theater, a venue officiated over 
by Kazuma Oono (gregarious male 
kitsune director). Nearby on opposite sides 
of the road is one of Willowshore’s busiest stores, 
Treesparrow’s Rest, and Willowshore’s only public 
bathhouse, the Happy Kappa. Treesparrow’s is a 
family-owned grocery store run by Nadoya Sanmi 
(friendly female human family matriarch), while 
the Happy Kappa’s owner, De-Ge Hua (chatty 
male halfling bathhouse owner) is famous 
in town for his obsession with cleanliness.
Wares: 
alcohol, 
bathing, 
entertainment, 
grains, 
household 
supplies and tools, preserved foods, 
rations
W16. Luo and Laws
Lung Wa’s laws, after being 
revised time and time again 
by self-serving rulers, are 
a 
bag 
of 
contradictions 
allowing independent lawyers, 
such as Luo Xi Yang (eager female 
human lawyer), to make a decent living attempting to 
make sense of them. Promised by the lumber lords who 
invited her here that rural life would be less stressful, 
Xi Yang arrived with only the essential 10-volume 
Imperial Compendium. Quickly, the lawyer discovered 
that Willowshore’s legal issues were as complicated, if 
not more so, than what she’d previously encountered in 
the city of Sze, and thus her library grew to a size that 
doubled the one in her former home.
W17. Mercantile Street
Willowshore’s newer businesses, particularly those 
associated with woodcarving, are mostly found in one 
of the red‑brick buildings along Mercantile Street. To 
ensure the lumber lords would never favor anyone, 
the woodcarvers came together to form a 
guild, through which young apprentices 
have the opportunity to intern at different 
shops during their apprenticeship. Yun 
Mong-Un (talented female human 
woodcarver), the woodcarver’s current 
elected guild leader, is a product of such 
training. Though heaped with praise for 
her work, Mong-Un would rather be a 
painter or jewelry maker.
Wares: artwork, wood items, 
wooden religious symbols
W18. Second Best
When 
Huo 
Tian-Zhe 
(humble 
male human inventor) arrived in town 
with his father from Karahai (Willowshore’s closest 
neighboring settlement to the east) five years ago to 
assist with the maintenance of Willowshore’s dam, the 
urban-born son thought he was about to show the 
“second-rated smiths of the countryside” how 
to get things done. Quickly, Tian-Zhe realized 
his skills were subpar to even the youngest 
apprentice of the Eternal Blaze and that his 
fancily-designed farm gadgets were more 
akin to toys than machines of marvels. 
Humbled, Tian‑Zhe asked his father to 
stay in Willowshore so he could learn to 
be a “smith of use.” Begrudgingly accepting 
the request, Tian-Zhe’s father nevertheless 
gave his son a handful of gold to order 
a new shop sign. As a reminder to 
himself, Tian-Zhe boldly named his 
workshop “Second Best.”
Tian-Zhe’s products have garnered 
some loyal customers, and his knowledge of 
machinery won over Yong Wu-Xiu such that the old 
smith tasked him with the maintenance of the dam.
Wares: adventuring tools, alchemical ammunition, 
alchemical bombs, clockwork gadgets, and simple 
armor, metal weapons, and shields
W19. The Hand of Spring
Willowshore relied heavily on home remedies, herbal 
droughts, and traveling priests for medical care until 
Player’s Guide
20
Luo Xi Yang
Dami

the arrival of Doctor Damihansig Mababangloob 
(kindly male human doctor), whom everyone calls 
Dami for short. Dami uses a mix of 
acupuncture, purified chemicals, and 
surgery to provide care. Though his 
treatments aren’t what Willowshore is 
used to, Dami has developed quite 
a reputation for being a charitable 
doctor who cares more about his 
patients than monetary gain.
Wares: alchemical healing items, 
healer’s kit supplies, nonmagical healing 
items
W20. Mother’s Coil
Magic was traditionally seen 
in Willowshore as either 
a 
manifestation 
of 
divine 
blessing, one’s connection to the 
spirit world, or just a trick of the hand and 
mind. Most folks didn’t quite understand it as a topic 
to be studied and learned until the arrival of Anjal of 
Thulsadus, an old nagaji wizard. Arriving about 15 
years ago, Anjal found the weather of Willowshore to 
be gentle on their dryscale condition and thus bought 
a plot of land from a farmer looking to relocate to the 
city of Sze. Overnight, a Nagajor-styled tower of dark 
basalt appeared, much to the awe of the villagers.
Though curious about magic, most villagers find 
the topic to be formidable and unapproachable, not 
to mention impractical. Thus, Anjal had only one 
apprentice, Jubei, a child they raised after she was 
abandoned in Willowshore by a pair of irresponsible 
“parents” who posed as well-off merchants but then 
fled town without paying their bills. Infuriated that 
anyone dared endanger a child so, Anjal’s Nalinivatian 
beliefs prompted the old wizard to take the terrified 
Jubei in as their own.
Jubei has since grown into a capable young adult. 
While Anjal’s death last year was tragic, Jubei is 
determined to continue studying the arcane arts 
through the books her adopted parent left behind.
Wares: arcane and occult scrolls, formulas and 
recipes, wands
W21. The Ceiba-Duyue Exchange
When Governor Heh Shan-Bao took office in 
Willowshore, he ordered several new warehouses 
and a trade office to be built here, hoping to expand 
the town’s industry and connection with the coastal 
fortress of Karahai. On Granny Hu’s advice, Shan-Bao 
handpicked the local Kofusachi priest, Kim Gu-won 
(patient male human cleric), to take the post of 
Exchange Manager. Gu-won reluctantly accepted 
the job, knowing that with what Granny Hu has 
on him, he wouldn’t be able to refuse.
Wares: beverages, divine scrolls, foods and 
spices, fulus, raw mineral, textiles
W22. Fisheries
Fish is an important food source for 
Willowshore. Locals traditionally capture 
entire schools of fish, preserve those 
above a certain size, and raise small 
ones in their backyard ponds. Today, 
this practice has been expanded, 
though the fishers have yet to reach 
a point where the fishery ponds here 
can be maintained indefinitely.
Zataku (observant female ratfolk fisher) 
is Willowshore’s foremost fish keeper; her ability to 
sense weather changes gives her the perfect edge in her 
occupation.
Wares: dried or smoked fish and shrimp, fertilizer, 
fishing gear, insect bait
W23. Dock
After the construction of the dam, Willowshore’s old 
dock was blocked off, thus requiring the construction 
of a new dock at the mouth of the Ceiba River. 
The new dock is operated and managed by Rajul 
Samudra (serene male nagaji shipwright), who was 
hired by the Ceiba‑Duyue Exchange specifically for 
his boat-building skills.
Wares: river boat rentals and sales
W24. The Mushroom House
This remote brick farmhouse smells of decay and 
manure. Everyone knows that mushrooms aren’t the 
only things growing in the farmhouse, though. For the 
right price, the Mushroom House can grow almost 
anything. Luda Bama (manipulative female halfling 
smuggler), a spry, elderly halfling woman, is the head 
of this illicit market, which she runs with the explicit 
permission of Granny Hu.
Wares: adventuring gear, drugs, poisons, tattoos
W25. The Cerulean Teahouse
Willowshore’s lumber bosses thought very highly of 
themselves, and the idea of mingling with the “common 
Player’s Guide
21
Granny Hu

folk” rankled them. Aristocrat Qing Mai-Lai’s solution 
was the establishment of this fine structure, close to the 
lumber lords’ estates.
The Cerulean Teahouse took off quickly, thanks to 
its plentiful offerings of extravagant food, drinks, and 
performances. However, once the novelty wore off, 
business quickly died. Still, Mai-Lai persevered, first 
by changing the teahouse’s focus to banquet catering, 
then by collaborating with The Leshy’s Salon as a 
storefront, and finally as a flexible bed‑and-breakfast. 
Just days after Mai-Lai finally paid off the loan on 
the property, news of Lung Wa’s collapse reached 
Willowshore. Mai-Lai called it quits at that point 
and announced her retirement, but her attempts to 
transfer control of the Teahouse to family met with 
complications after it became apparent that none of 
her relations wanted to move to Willowshore. When 
Mai-Lai passed away early in the previous winter, 
ownership of the business was still undetermined, for 
Mai-Lai never submitted a will. Today, the Cerulean 
Teahouse stands vacant and is slowly falling into 
ruin.
W26. Abandoned Estates
The abandoned lumber lords’ estates, after being 
thoroughly picked clean, were left to serve as the 
occasional rage room or dare challenge. An abandoned 
shrine to Desna sits in one of the houses, and many 
have questioned if someone should accept the goddess 
into their home instead of leaving her bereft in the 
estate ruins.
W27. The Leshy’s Saloon
The local leshies don’t recall when they came to the 
region, just that it was long before Willowshore was 
founded. They didn’t officially join Willowshore until 
the expansion of the settlement made it inevitable. With 
allied families keeping the greedy lumber lords away, 
the leshies built their own tea farm business, taking 
to the roads with brewed tea and teaware stashed in 
rectangular bamboo backpacks. Some would shout 
slogans, while others used a simple temple block to 
inform customers of their arrival. These traveling 
merchants soon became an attraction and staple of 
Willowshore life. Ever since the Cerulean Teahouse 
closed, Mountain Summit Grass (irreverent agender 
leshy teamaker), the leader of this band of leshies, has 
been increasingly focusing on creating bespoke blends 
of tea for individual local customers they favor.
Wares: clay pottery tea ware, tea leaves
W28. Bones of the Forgotten
Willowshore, like many remote villages, has its own 
set of laws. Grievous crimes were punished with exile 
unless the individual’s skill or knowledge was needed—
the punishment was then permanent imprisonment. 
Executions were rare, as being exiled into Specterwood 
was often a death sentence in itself.
Particularly vile criminals had a Mark of Crime 
tattooed onto their scalp, and after death, this tattoo 
was transferred to the bones through carving, meaning 
even in death and decomposition, the mark remained. 
Bodies with a Mark of Crime—be it from Willowshore, 
another village, or Lung Wa—can only be buried in this 
overgrown and unkept area.
While graves were unmarked in the past, a few 
wooden posts have been erected recently and paper 
shuriken hung off them, seemingly in silent protest 
that the ones buried beneath might have died an unjust 
death. Or perhaps this is an attempt to stave off the rise 
of a bitter, vengeful ghost.
W29. The Great Willow
Willowshore rests at the foot of a mountainous region 
known geographically as the Trimountains, named due 
to the three major peaks in the area. In her memoir, 
Master Zhi Hui noted how she found an ancient 
willow tree of unusual size at the summit of the lowest 
of these mountains. After befriending the kodama kami 
who protected the tree, Master Zhi Hui learned vital 
information that eventually led her to the Tan Sugi 
grove to the west. For this knowledge, the kodama 
of the so-called “Great Willow” has received much 
reverence from both Willowshore and visiting pilgrims 
over the years.
Wares: foraged foods and nonmetallic raw materials
W30. Spider Gate
After the Night of Broken Blades, Willowshore’s 
governor caved to the demand for a new lantern at 
the entrance of the town to augment the protection 
afforded by the Eternal Lantern at the town’s heart. 
While the original plan was for the carpenters of 
Willowshore to build a tori gate or Tian-shu gateway 
on which lanterns could be hung, a Lung Wa aristocrat 
offered a free stone guardian spider from his garden 
since it no longer fit in with the garden’s decorations.
Most Willowshorers thought the giant statue was 
the ugliest thing they’d ever seen. Nevertheless, they 
assumed the statue housed a guardian spirit and 
respected it accordingly. In time, villagers accepted 
Player’s Guide
22

their unique entrance guardian, even adopting it as 
their mascot and naming it “Ugly Cute.” The lantern 
Ugly Cute holds in its fangs is a regular lantern, unlike 
the Eternal Lantern found at Dawnstep Bridge, but the 
people of Willowshore value it just as much and strive 
to keep it lit at all times.
WILLOWSHORE HINTERLANDS
Beyond the town’s borders lies the rugged terrain 
of its hinterlands—rolling forested hills rising to 
verdant mountains to the west, while to the east, 
the region’s largest river eventually flows into the 
Sea of Ghosts. Where this river meets the sea stands 
Willowshore’s closest neighbor, the coastal fortified 
market called Karahai, yet even this location is a 
day’s ride from town.
The immediate hinterlands feature a number of 
minor sites of interest. The Duyue River is the largest 
waterway in the region with Willowshore founded 
on one of its tributaries, the Ceiba River. A shallower 
tributary, Dragonfly Creek, winds south to an open 
area of rugged stone known as the Gorge of Fangs 
and Teeth—a natural quarry that supplied the stone 
for Willowshore’s roads and foundations. Gourd 
Lake, downriver from Willowshore, provides excellent 
fishing, but those who would ply its waters would do 
well to make offerings to the kappas who dwell in its 
depths and cavort on its southern shores. Green Silk 
Peak, nearly 2,000 feet high, is the highest point of 
elevation in the hinterlands, while the natural sinkholes 
known as the Eyes of Fumeiyoshi are the opposite—
barren pits in the ground where nothing grows and 
gritty water has pooled.
Signs of habitation beyond Willowshore are sparse in 
the region, but they do exist and are largely abandoned. 
To the northeast stand the burnt-out ruins of an 
abandoned roadhouse once known as Canary Inn, 
while a remote Hunter’s Hut stands near the headwaters 
of the Duyue River. To the north can be found an old 
expansion once intended to support Willowshore, but 
these buildings and farms were soon abandoned when 
it became apparent the stream that flowed through the 
area tended to dry up at random intervals each year. 
To the west, near the source of the Ceiba River, are the 
remains of the old Lumber Camp abandoned a few 
years ago by the local lumber lords—a location that’s 
slowly being reclaimed by the forest. And in the low 
mountains northwest of town, at the far end of the trail 
Player’s Guide
23
Ceiba River
Ceiba River
Duyue River
Duyue River
Duyue River
Duyue River
Dragonfly Creek
Dragonfly Creek
Gourd Lake
Gourd Lake
WILLOWSHORE
WILLOWSHORE
• Trail
• Trail
• Seasonal Creek
• Seasonal Creek
WILLOWSHORE HINTERLANDS
WILLOWSHORE HINTERLANDS
1 HEX = 2 MILES
1 HEX = 2 MILES
Sugi River
Sugi River
Pilgrims Path
Pilgrims Path
A
North Sugi River
North Sugi River
West Sugi River
West Sugi River
Mirror 
Mirror 
Lake
Lake
TO KARAHAI
TO KARAHAI
Left Eye of 
Left Eye of 
Fumeiyoshi
Fumeiyoshi
Tan Sugi 
Tan Sugi 
Monastery
Monastery
Old Village 
Old Village 
Expansion
Expansion
Hunter's 
Hunter's 
Hut
Hut
Canary Inn
Canary Inn
Gree Silk 
Gree Silk 
Peak
Peak
Right Eye of 
Right Eye of 
Fumeiyoshi
Fumeiyoshi
Lumber 
Lumber 
Camp
Camp
Gorge of Fangs 
Gorge of Fangs 
and Teeth
and Teeth

known as Pilgrim’s Path, stand the ruins of the Tan 
Sugi monastery—a place reputed today to be the den of 
monsters, ghosts, or worse.
The forest surrounding Willowshore is part of 
the much larger woodland known as Specterwood, 
although here in Willowshore’s hinterlands, the haunts 
and ghosts notorious for plaguing these woods aren’t 
as dangerous. Wildlife is abundant with deer and boars 
making up the primary large game in the region, and 
more dangerous predators like black bears, wolves, 
giant stag beetles, and enormous spiders comprise the 
greater perils of the hinterlands to those who travel too 
far from the roads or explore the wilds after dark.
BEYOND THE HINTERLANDS
Season of Ghosts takes place almost entirely within the 
town of Willowshore and its immediate hinterlands, as 
presented on the map (page 16), but there’s a whole 
world out there beyond the borders of the map! 
When events might send you beyond the Willowshore 
hinterlands, your GM will have the information you 
need, but it’s easiest to focus on Willowshore and its 
hinterlands when seeking inspiration to create your 
character.
Brief notes about what lies beyond the hinterlands 
down the six roads and trails that lead off the map are 
summarized below.
Central Northern Road: This partially ruined road 
winds through several fields that have gone fallow 
amid the ruins of a village that was abandoned many 
years ago, then eventually comes to an end at a large 
wetland known as Moon Marsh for the way the 
orange, night‑blooming flowers that grow there shine 
under the moonlight.
Eastern Northern Road: This road connects 
Willowshore with numerous small but distant villages 
and towns scattered throughout Specterwood and 
eventually finds its way to the Gossamer Mountains. 
The next closest settlement down this road is 
Foxhollow, but it’s three days’ travel and even smaller 
than Willowshore.
Eastern Road: This road leads to the trade fortress of 
Karahai and represents Willowshore’s major economic 
link to the rest of Shenmen. Karahai has a small village 
(quite a bit smaller than Willowshore) nearby—the 
trade fortress itself being one of many economic hubs 
along the west coast of the Sea of Ghosts.
Northeastern Road: This road leads to a recently 
established farmstead on a bluff overlooking the Sea of 
Ghosts, a cattle ranch owned by a notoriously ruthless 
expatriate politician from the city of Sze who doesn’t 
have much to do with Willowshore.
Northwest Trail: This old overgrown trail leads 
off into the forest; most folks believe it leads to a 
long‑abandoned shrine, but few travel this remote 
path today.
Southern Road: The southern road is a long 
overland route that eventually connects to better 
maintained roads and more populous villages and 
towns several days’ travel to the south, but most in 
Willowshore call it the “Apple Road,” as it leads to 
a grove of wild apple trees that produce particularly 
delicious fruit every fall.
Player’s Guide
24

Pathfinder Seasons of Ghosts Remastered Player's Guide 
© 2026, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem, Pathfinder, and 
other trademarks owned by Paizo are property of Paizo Inc. 
All rights reserved.
No matter how terrifying, I want the truth.
ORC Notice
This product is licensed under the ORC License located at the 
Library of Congress at TX 9-307-067 and available online at various 
locations including paizo.com/orclicense, azoralaw.com/orclicense, 
and others. All warranties are disclaimed as set forth therein.
Attribution: This product is original game content and is not 
based on a licensed game system. 
If you use our Licensed Material in your own published work, 
please credit us in your product as follows:
Pathfinder Season of Ghosts Remastered Player's Guide © 2026 
Paizo Inc., Authors: Sen H.H.S., James Jacobs. 
Reserved Material: Reserved Material elements in this product 
include all elements designated as Reserved Material 
under the ORC License. To avoid confusion, such items 
include: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper 
nouns (characters, deities, locations, etc., as well as all 
adjectives, names, titles, and descriptive terms derived from 
proper nouns), artworks, characters, dialogue, locations, 
organizations, plots, storylines, and trade dress.
Expressly Designated Licensed Material: This product contains 
no Expressly Designated Licensed Material.
Paizo Inc.
Associate Publisher • Thurston Hillman
Director of Games • Jason Bulmahn
Director of Visual Design • Sonja Morris
Director of Narrative • Adam Daigle
Narrative Manager • Ron Lundeen
Creative Manager (Starfinder) • Jenny Jarzabski
Creative Directors • James Jacobs and Luis Loza
Lead Developer • John Compton
Senior Developers • Jessica Catalan, Eleanor Ferron, 
and Mike Kimmel
Developers • Bill Fischer, Michelle Y. Kim, 
and Landon Winkler
Lead Designer (Games) • Joe Pasini
Organized Play Line Developers • Josh Foster and Shay Snow
Pathfinder Lead Designer • Logan Bonner
Senior Designer • Jason Keeley
Designers • Joshua Birdsong, Ivis K. Flanagan, Dustin Knight, 
Costin Wilken-Schelling, and Aras Yazgan
Managing Editor • Patrick Hurley
Lead Editors • Avi Kool and Simone D. Sallé
Senior Editors • Ianara Natividad and Solomon St. John
Editors • Felix Dritz, Priscilla N. Lagares, Lynne M. Meyer, 
and Zac Moran
Concept Art Director • Kent Hamilton
Managing Art Director • Adam Vick
Art Director • Kyle Hunter
Senior Graphic Designer • Emily Crowell
Graphic Designer • Adriana Gasperi
Production Designer • Danika Wirch
Director of Brand Strategy • Mark Moreland
Owners • Lisa Stevens and Vic Wertz
CEO • Jim Butler
Chief Creative Officer • Erik Mona
Vice President of People, Culture, and Logistics • Maggie Gallagher
Vice President of Technology • Rei Ko
Chief Growth Officer • Christian Moore
Controller • William Jorenby
Accountant • Pasha Jurgensen
Director of Sales • Cosmo Eisele
Director of E-Commerce • Lyle Borders
Sales & E-Commerce Assistant • Mika Hawkins
Director of Licensing • John Feil
Director of Marketing • BJ Hensley
Licensing Manager / Licensing Producer • Raychael Allor
Marketing and Media Manager • Rue Dickey
Community and Social Media Specialist • Maya Coleman
Convention and Organized Play Manager • Alex Speidel
Director of Project Management • Glenn Elliott
Project Manager II • Lee Aula
Finance Operations Specialist • B. Scott Keim
Digital Products Lead • Andrew White
Software Architect • Brian Bauman
Senior Software Developer • Robert Brandenburg
Software Test Engineer • Erik Keith
System Administrators II • Whitney Chatterjee and 
Josh Thornton
Web Content Manager • Maryssa Mari
Webstore Coordinator • Katina Davis
Customer Service Lead • Kait Chase
Customer Service Representatives • Summer Foerch 
and James Oakes
Director of Operations • Jeff Strand
Warehouse Manager • Matt Byrd
Logistics Coordinator • Kevin Underwood
Warehouse Distribution Lead • Heather Payne
Warehouse Team • Erick Blandin, Danielle Cavanagh, Alexander 
Crain, and Zavier Hooppaw
Player’s Guide
25

