By James Jacobs
Player’s  
Guide
Second Edition

AUTHOR
James Jacobs
ADDITIONAL WRITING
Sen H.H.S. 
DEVELOPER
James Jacobs
DESIGN LEAD
James Case
EDITING LEAD
Ianara Natividad
EDITORS
Patrick Hurley and Ianara Natividad
COVER ARTIST
Rodrigo Gonzalez Toledo
INTERIOR ARTISTS
Robert Lazzaretti and Jutine Nortjé
ART DIRECTION AND GRAPHIC DESIGN
Sonja Morris
PUBLISHER
Erik Mona
How to Use This Guide	
3
by James Jacobs
What is the Season of Ghosts?	
3
In the Year 7108	
4
Character Suggestions	
5
by James Jacobs
Alignments	
5
Ancestries	
5
Classes	
6
Faiths	
8
Languages	
9
Skills and Feats	
9
Archetypes	
10
Gear	
10
Backgrounds	
10
Home and Heirloom	
14
Table: Suggested Character Options	
14
Willowshore Gazetteer	
15
by Sen H.H.S. and James Jacobs
People of Willowshore	
15
Willowshore Locations	
17
Willowshore Hinterlands	
22
Beyond the Hinterlands	
23
Player’s Guide
Paizo Inc.
15902 Woodinville-Redmond Rd 
NE, Unit B.
Woodinville, WA. 98072
paizo.com

How to Use This Guide
Welcome to the Season of Ghosts Adventure Path!
This Player’s Guide will help you to prepare for a 
horror-themed campaign set in the rural regions of 
the nation of Shenmen, where your characters play 
the roles of hometown heroes who must rise to the 
occasion and defend the people of Willowshore from a 
sinister curse and all manner of supernatural threats—
while also preparing for what might be a particularly 
cruel winter season. You’ll begin as 1st-level characters 
who, if you haven’t lived in Willowshore your whole 
lives, have come to be recognized and welcomed as 
locals after arriving in town in the recent past.
This Adventure Path is split into four parts, each 
taking place during a different season as your PCs grow 
more powerful and the threats facing Willowshore 
grow deadlier and more shocking. The Adventure Path 
features some particularly significant plot twists and 
revelations, so if you’ve had some of these surprises 
revealed to you, please consider other players’ 
experiences before spoiling the secrets that await 
discovery during the later parts of Season of Ghosts!
To play in this campaign, all you need is the 
Pathfinder Core Rulebook and a character sheet. With 
your Game Master’s permission, you can also use 
Pathfinder Second Edition supplemental rulebooks, 
campaign setting books, and other accessories to 
further customize your character, especially since this 
campaign is set on the continent of Tian Xia, where 
the most common ancestries, faiths, and other elements 
aren’t the same as those assumed in a campaign set in 
the Inner Sea region.
On the following pages, you’ll find specific 
suggestions to help you create a new character for 
Season of Ghosts. This Player’s Guide is organized into 
the following sections.
•	 Character 
Suggestions 
(page 
5): 
Guidance, 
practical advice, and specific tips for creating a 
1st-level character that fits seamlessly into this 
campaign.
•	 Willowshore Gazetteer (page 15): Much of what 
you (and your character) need to know about your 
hometown of Willowshore is presented in this 
gazetteer. Your GM has additional information 
about this town, should information you need not 
be present in this section.
WHAT IS THE SEASON OF GHOSTS?
The Season of Ghosts Adventure Path is named for a 
traditional period in Shenmen that takes place during 
the first few weeks of summer, when the woodlands see 
an increase in hauntings, spirits, and undead. While 
the cause of this increased haunting is uncertain, these 
ghosts often lure people to their deaths.
In Willowshore, a massive feast and festival 
takes place on the last day of spring. Called the 
“Reenactment Festival,” this gala is meant not only 
to celebrate the end of spring, but to trick the evil 
spirits and ghosts believed to come out of the woods 
during the first few weeks of summer. As the festival’s 
feast concludes, the town reenacts victims being 
snatched away by “ghosts” (played by townsfolk 
in paper masks). Those not involved in the faux 
abduction pretend to plunge into collective panic as 
designated wailers mourn loudly while others play 
out a search and rescue effort. This farce is believed 
to trick real ghosts into thinking that someone has 
already haunted the settlement, and thus trick them 
into seeking a happier village to inflict misery upon 
once the season of ghosts begins the next day on the 
first day of summer.
As fate would have it, the PCs are chosen this year 
to play the role of the town’s abductees—reasons for 
their abduction are built in to the various Season of 
Ghosts backgrounds, so if you don’t use one of these 
backgrounds for your character, work with the GM 
to create a reason similar to those presented there to 
explain why you’re among the festival’s abductees.
Once you’re “abducted” from the feast, your 
captors roll you up in straw mats and then carry 
WHERE (AND WHEN) ON GOLARION?
The Season of Ghosts Adventure Path takes 
place exclusively in a small part of rural 
Shenmen, a haunted nation in the middle of 
the continent of Tian-Xia. Specifically, the bulk 
of this adventure path happens in and around 
the town of Willowshore, which is presented in 
further detail beginning on page 15.
Of greater note is the time in which Season 
of Ghosts takes place—unlike other Adventure 
Paths, the events of Season of Ghosts take place 
roughly over the course of a year, starting on the 
first day of summer in the year 7108 ic (4608 ar 
in the Inner Sea region), over a hundred years in 
the past and only a few years after the start of 
the Age of Lost Omens.
Player’s Guide
3

you off into a forest clearing on the town’s outskirts, 
where you’re expected to stay overnight. With the 
first dawn of summer, the “abductees” are ransomed 
by whoever is in charge of that year’s Reenactment 
Festival. This year, that honor falls to one Choe 
Chun‑hu, beloved leader of Willowshore’s 
millers. He has promised to bring the “ransom” 
(a selection of delicious breakfast delicacies) 
to the PCs in the forest clearing the next 
morning for them to enjoy before leading 
them back to town to proclaim the 
Reenactment Festival a grand success.
While it often rains during the summer, 
you luck out and spend a relatively 
comfortable night out under the stars. Of 
course, staying overnight in any woodland 
carries some risk, and you all have 
plenty of time to prepare. You 
can bring all your starting 
items and gear, as determined 
during 
character 
creation, 
to have with you during your 
abduction—items not brought will be 
waiting for you back at home.
The Season of Ghosts Adventure Path begins when 
you and the other PCs awaken in a forest clearing on 
the first day of summer... but there’s no sign of Choe 
Chun-hu and the breakfast he promised!
IN THE YEAR 7108
Season of Ghosts begins on the first day of summer in 
the year 7108, over a century before the current year 
assumed for other Adventure Paths. While playing a 
campaign this far in the past could result in significant 
work to revise the setting in various parts of Golarion, 
Season of Ghosts requires very little work in this 
regard, as Willowshore is a remote rural location that, 
for the first several years of the Age of Lost Omens, 
was largely ignored and left to its own devices.
The Age of Lost Omens began in 7106, during 
which powerful storms wracked much of Golarion. 
Willowshore was no exception, and the winter 
storms that blasted the region were among the 
worst in memory. Now, two years later, the people 
of Willowshore are somewhat nervous about the 
coming winter season. Even though the winter of 
7107 was relatively mild, memories of the snow, high 
winds, and torrential rains of 7106 linger.
The collapse of the empire of Lung Wa is a less 
immediate concern to Willowshore, even though 
on a larger regional scale, this political upheaval 
would be one of the most important events to shape 
modern Tian Xia. While Shenmen’s rule under 
Lung Wa ends in 7106, the fact that small towns 
like Willowshore had traditionally been largely 
ignored and left to their own devices under 
governors installed by Lung Wa edicts has largely 
sheltered Willowshore from ramifications, 
even two years after the empire’s collapse. 
Willowshore is fortunate that the governor 
assigned by the empire, a man named Heh 
Shan-Bao, is relatively benign as far as 
tradition goes, and if anything, the lack 
of a yearly tax collector or other imperial 
visitors have resulted in idyllic seasons in 
the rural town. Meanwhile, the mayhem of 
a collapsed empire has led to violence 
and upheaval in more urban 
areas. The largest change that 
hit Willowshore as the result 
of Lung Wa’s collapse was the 
abandonment of the town by 
various lumber lords, who left their 
estates and lumber camps rather than continue to 
supply the demands of the city of Sze, the closest 
large settlement to Willowshore. For the people 
of Willowshore, the loss of these unpleasant long-
term visitors was seen almost universally as a relief, 
and their manors and lumber camps have been left 
alone—in part out of fear that they could return at 
any time, but mostly because of a local belief that 
letting these buildings and locations be reclaimed by 
the woods is the most respectful way to usher Lung 
Wa’s influence over Willowshore into memory.
The notion that jorogumo have taken control of 
Shenmen remains, at this point, “ghost story” or 
“scary rumor.” No jorogumo has visited Willowshore 
yet... at least, as far as anyone knows. Likewise, news 
that the ruler of the city of Sze has died and returned 
as a ghost has reached town, yet not everyone 
believes these stories. The people of Willowshore are 
content to live as they always have... for now!
ABOUT SHENMEN
While some nations in Tian Xia are inspired by 
certain real-life cultures, Shenmen is primarily 
inspired by horror traditions taken from a wide 
range of real‑world stories. It’s a fictional nation and 
isn’t meant to represent more than these traditions 
of supernatural horror. During this nation’s history, 
Player’s Guide
4
Heh Shan-Bao

it was conquered by Lung Wa, picked up immigrants 
from Hwanggot, and was taken over by jorogumo. It 
has a mix of cultures as a result, and its people have 
adopted words from multiple languages for their 
names and places. In Shenmen, ghosts and monsters 
are a very real part of life, and the practices employed 
by its people arise from necessity, not superstition.
HORROR AND CONSENT
Season of Ghosts is a horror-themed campaign, and 
as such, the GM and players should work together 
to ensure that the themes present as this Adventure 
Path unfolds will be appropriate for the game table. If 
you aren’t comfortable with certain tropes or themes 
common to the horror genre, speak with your GM and 
the other players before beginning Season of Ghosts 
to arrive at a common ground where everyone at your 
table can enjoy the campaign equally.
Character Suggestions
The following information not only provides context 
for creating characters that fit well with the themes 
present in the town of Willowshore and the nation of 
Shenmen, but also helps you to build a character that 
will fit well in the overall storyline of Season of Ghosts.
ALIGNMENTS
The heart of Season of Ghosts lies in the town of 
Willowshore—a rural community of a couple hundred 
people with varying alignments, yet the primary 
alignment in Willowshore includes neutrality but skews 
markedly away from evil. Furthermore, a fair amount 
of this Adventure Path relies on the PCs being motivated 
through compassion to protect their fellow townsfolk 
without any particular promise of monetary rewards. 
As a result, evil alignments aren’t a great thematic fit 
for this Adventure Path. As always, though, as long as 
the individual PCs are able to work together and (in 
this case) wish to ensure the prosperity and survival of 
their shared hometown, specific alignments aren’t all 
that important.
ANCESTRIES
As a citizen of the town of Willowshore, the most 
appropriate ancestries to choose for a PC are those 
which are represented significantly in the town.
Common Ancestries
The following ancestries are all represented to a certain 
degree in Willowshore. Humans are far and away 
the most numerous ancestry in Willowshore, with all 
of Tian Xia’s human ethnicities being represented. 
Shenmen’s proximity to nations like Jinin and Kwanlai 
have ensured a noticeable number of elves, half-elves, 
and tengus (Pathfinder Advanced Player’s Guide 24) in 
the nation’s towns, and Willowshore is no exception. 
Humans of Taldan ethnicity and halflings (largely 
folk emigrated from the nation of Amanandar just 
north of Shenmen) are present in Willowshore as well. 
Kitsune (Pathfinder Lost Omens Ancestry Guide 120) 
and nagaji (Pathfinder Impossible Lands 46) aren’t as 
widespread throughout Shenmen, but they’re relatively 
common in Willowshore.
Uncommon Ancestries
These ancestries are less common in Willowshore—
there might only be a handful living in town or none 
besides potential PCs, but all of these ancestries are 
thematically appropriate for Season of Ghosts. You 
might wish to speak to your GM before selecting one 
of these ancestries to give them a chance to potentially 
adjust the campaign and give your choice more visibility 
among Willowshore’s citizens.
Advanced Player’s Guide Ancestries: Dhampir would 
make an excellent thematic choice for a horror-themed 
campaign like Season of Ghosts, particularly those of 
TENGU ANIMOSITY
While the people of Willowshore harbor no 
intrinsic dislike of their tengu citizens (and 
indeed, some of them, like Kawaka Myna, are 
well-respected business owners), the rulers of 
modern Shenmen, the jorogumo, loathe tengus 
and are known to fly into murderous rages when 
confronted by them. Since Season of Ghosts is 
set at the onset of jorogumo rule over Shenmen, 
remote Willowshore has yet to face any 
jorogumo visitors, and as such, tengu PCs won’t 
need to navigate this bitter animosity often. 
Should rumors or news of a jorogumo visit to 
Willowshore arise in the campaign, players of 
tengu characters should take note—your GM 
has advice in the adventures on how to handle 
such situations, so if you have concerns about 
playing a tengu PC, speak to your GM so they 
can provide advice customized to your table in a 
way your GM feels comfortable with.
Player’s Guide
5

the ru-shi lineage (Ancestry Guide 26), who trace their 
vampiric bloodline to a jiang-shi. Some few ysokis 
(aka ratfolk) live in Willowshore and also would make 
appropriate PCs. Planar scions (particularly aasimars 
who have traveled to Shenmen from the nation of 
Tianjing on the opposite shore of the Sea of Ghosts) 
might have settled in Shenmen as well.
Core Ancestries: Dwarves, gnomes, and goblins 
aren’t present in notable numbers in Willowshore, but 
any of these people could have emigrated south from 
Amanandar to settle there.
Pathfinder Lost Omens Ancestry Guide Ancestries: 
Unlike aasimars, tieflings who dwell in Shenmen tend 
to come from one of two lineages. Like aasimars who 
traveled west across the Sea of Ghosts, riftmarked 
tieflings (descended from qlippoth influence) aren’t 
unknown in Shenmen. Tieflings are often regarded with 
fear and suspicion by those in Willowshore, but any 
PCs of such an ancestry in Season of Ghosts is already 
known to the other townsfolk as an “exception” to the 
expectation—speak to your GM about integrating such 
a character into this campaign in the event that they 
wish to adjust certain aspects of the campaign to reflect 
your choice.
Pathfinder Lost Omens Character Guide Ancestries: 
Hobgoblin PCs might have come to Willowshore 
from the western nation of Kaoling, but like tieflings, 
hobgoblins are often regarded with fear or suspicion. 
Leshies are more generally welcome, and indeed, 
a small group of them maintain a saloon of sorts in 
Willowshore.
Pathfinder Lost Omens Tian Xia Character Guide 
Ancestries: Many more ancestries common to Tian Xia 
will be introduced in the Pathfinder Lost Omens Tian 
Xia Character Guide, due for publication in 2024—
if you wish to play any of these ancestries once these 
options become available, speak with your GM.
Rare Ancestries
Any other ancestry not mentioned above (or in 
Inappropriate Ancestries below) is considered rare—
while these ancestries can certainly work from a game 
balance perspective, they aren’t particularly on theme 
for Season of Ghosts. If you wish to play a rare ancestry, 
speak with your GM first.
Inappropriate Ancestries
Aquatic ancestries will find themselves literally out of 
their element in Season of Ghosts, as there are very few 
moments for such characters to shine. Willowshore is 
located on the banks of a river and has a lake at its 
heart, so there will be a source of water to dwell in, but 
speak with your GM before making such a choice for 
your character.
Androids are inappropriate for this campaign as 
well—since Season of Ghosts is set roughly 100 years 
before the events of the Iron Gods Adventure Path, 
androids simply haven’t spread far enough beyond 
the borders of Numeria to be logically encountered 
elsewhere in the world. If you wish to play an 
android in Season of Ghosts, you’ll need to work 
with your GM to adjust your game’s canon as needed 
to provide a logical in-world reason for an android’s 
presence in Willowshore.
CLASSES
In Season of Ghosts, your characters are assumed to be 
citizens of Willowshore. While Willowshore only has 
a population of 225 (excluding your PCs!), the town’s 
history and placement make it open toward a wide 
range of potential character classes to be represented 
by its newest cast of heroes.
Alchemists 
are 
respected 
and 
adored 
in 
Willowshore, both for their skill as herbalists and 
talent in crafting fanciful distractions for festivals. 
Local herbalist You So-Jin of Graveside Manners 
focuses more on the herbalism side of alchemical 
innovation, but access to her alchemist’s lab and 
supplies, should you earn her support and friendship, 
will be of great use. The chirurgeon research field 
is the most appropriate thematic choice for a 
Willowshore alchemist, but any research field will be 
of equal use in Season of Ghosts.
Barbarians might be a complex choice for Season 
of Ghosts, considering the lack of any established 
barbarian clans in the region. Though there are no 
barbarian NPCs in Willowshore, there are plenty of 
locals who enjoy a good fight or appreciate physical 
strength. An animal instinct barbarian might be 
valued for their skills at hunting, while a spirit 
instinct barbarian might find themselves respected as 
a defender against the evil spirits that locals fear (and 
will certainly find their ability to harm incorporeal foes 
more easily to be a great boon during many combat 
encounters in Season of Ghosts!) Other instincts don’t 
have a particular thematic tie to Willowshore, but none 
of them are particularly poor choices overall for this 
Adventure Path.
Bards will have many opportunities to influence 
NPCs, craft singular performances, or use music to 
Player’s Guide
6

their advantage at various points during Season of 
Ghosts, but no specific build is more advantageous 
over another in this Adventure Path. If you select 
enigma as your muse, Tan Sui-Jing (an ancient folk 
hero whose accomplishments in the past are now a part 
of Willowshore’s legacy) or Great Willow (the strange 
kodama kami associated with the towering willow 
tree of the same name that looms atop a hill north of 
town) might be fun choices—speak with your GM to 
find out if any other mysterious muses might make 
sense. In Willowshore, Kazuma Oono, the director who 
runs the Seven-Colored Songbird theater, is known to 
periodically audition performers.
Champions are all appropriate for Season of Ghosts, 
provided their tenets don’t set them up to clash against 
the rest of the party. The classic example of the ronin 
who settled in a small town to become their defender is 
an iconic role for a champion in a campaign like Season 
of Ghosts. While there aren’t many encounters in this 
Adventure Path that require the PCs to be mounted, 
there will be plenty of opportunities in both urban 
and wilderness areas where having a mount in combat 
could be helpful.
Clerics should consider the additional information 
presented under Faiths (page 8) for guidelines on which 
deity to worship.
Druids will have ample opportunity to excel in 
Season of Ghosts as a result of the Adventure Path’s 
focus on a year’s worth of seasons and the town 
of Willowshore being a rural location. Temperate 
forests are the primary natural terrain featured in this 
Adventure Path. The druid orders of animal, leaf, and 
storm are the most thematically appropriate choices 
for this Adventure Path, but all orders will find 
opportunities in this campaign. The following animals 
are the most common in the region surrounding 
Willowshore, so choosing one of them as your animal 
companion will also be on theme (if you wish to 
choose a different animal companion, speak to your 
GM about how this animal might have become your 
companion under unusual circumstances): arboreal 
sapling (Advanced Player’s Guide 144), badger, bat, 
bear, beetle (Pathfinder Lost Omens Grand Bazaar 
54), bird, boar (Advanced Player’s Guide 144), cat, 
horse, snake, or wolf.
Fighters will find ample opportunity to shine in 
Season of Ghosts, but it’s important to remember that 
there are a lot of urban and downtime elements in this 
Adventure Path. Consider bolstering your training 
in a skill like Crafting, Diplomacy, Intimidation, or 
Society so that during the noncombat portions of this 
Adventure Path, you’ll still have moments to shine.
Gunslingers aren’t a particularly good choice, 
thematically, for this Adventure Path, and beyond that, 
there are no resources for gunslingers to rely upon 
in the town of Willowshore. If you want to play a 
gunslinger, talk to your GM first, but it’s probably best 
to save ideas for a gunslinger PC for another campaign.
Inventors aren’t common in Shenmen, but they’re 
hardly unknown, and their knack for rigging up 
contraptions and creative solutions can be quite 
valuable in a rural area like Willowshore where 
access to a wider range of rare or specialized tools 
and gear aren’t guaranteed. Indeed, Huo Tian-Zhe of 
Willowshore’s smithy Second Best is well-known for 
his contraptions and creations, and he could make for 
an excellent ally or friend to a PC inventor. There’s no 
inventor innovation that’s more or less appropriate for 
Season of Ghosts than another.
Investigators will find plenty of opportunities 
to research information, track clues, and unravel 
mysteries during the course of Season of Ghosts, 
making them a particularly excellent thematic choice 
for this Adventure Path overall. The methodologies 
of alchemical sciences and forensic medicine are 
the most thematically appropriate options for this 
Adventure Path.
Kineticists are a fine choice for Season of Ghosts, 
although there isn’t much thematic support in 
Willowshore for an elemental or kineticist flavor—
if you wish to play a kineticist, speak with your GM 
about potentially adjusting that in some way. In 
particular, a theme of “wood against metal” plays a 
subtle underlying theme in this campaign; the people of 
Willowshore more align to the themes of wood, while 
the themes of metal more align with some elements of 
the campaign’s opposition.
Magi will find their abilities useful throughout 
Season of Ghosts but aren’t particularly tied, 
thematically, to this Adventure Path’s plot. Of course, 
that also means a magus character will be relatively 
free from thematic clashes when making choices 
about their increasing power!
Monks 
are 
a 
strong 
thematic 
choice 
for 
Willowshore, a town that was originally founded 
to serve as support for a remote monastery. While 
that monastery, the Tan Sugi Monastery, is now in 
ruins and no longer operational, there are plenty of 
places that a monk’s lifestyle can be rewarding in 
Willowshore proper, if only as part of the town’s rich 
Player’s Guide
7

history and legacy. See Faith below for additional 
guidance on religion or belief.
Oracles are perhaps an even stronger thematic 
choice for Season of Ghosts than clerics as far as divine 
spellcasters are concerned. Most oracle mysteries are 
strong thematic choices in this Adventure Path with 
Battle, Cosmos, and Flames being the least so. Also, see 
Faith below for additional guidance on religions.
Psychics aren’t represented among Willowshore’s 
citizens, but their magical practices are known and 
admired. Those who focus their studies and powers on 
themes associated with lore, discovering ancient secrets, 
or battling supernatural forces will find themselves 
with no shortage of opportunity in Season of Ghosts.
Rangers are quite valued among Willowshore’s people; 
their survivalist abilities and hunting acumen allow the 
town to maintain its self-sufficiency. The town’s Silvermist 
Lodges are the traditional locations where local rangers 
would gather, but today, a ranger could be based out of 
nearly any location in town or the hinterlands beyond. If 
you gain an animal companion, consult the suggestions 
above for druids. If you take the Favored Terrain feat, 
the terrain of Forest is far and above the most common 
terrain you’ll face during Season of Ghosts. Aquatic (in 
the form of lakes and rivers) and Mountain terrain have 
much more minor roles to play, after which there are even 
lesser roles for Plains, Sky, Swamp, and Underground. 
Season of Ghosts doesn’t feature arctic or desert terrain.
Rogues will find many uses for their skills in 
Season of Ghosts, particularly when it comes to those 
associated with navigating the politics of a small rural 
town. Consider the advice for skills later in this Player’s 
Guide when choosing where to focus your training.
Sorcerers are an excellent thematic choice for this 
Adventure Path, as Willowshore is steeped in many 
supernatural and mysterious traditions. All sorcerer 
bloodlines could be equally interesting in Season of 
Ghosts, but the most thematically appropriate ones are 
imperial, psychopomp (Advanced Player’s Guide 138), 
or undead.
Summoners should consider the regions surrounding 
Willowshore (forests, with some low mountains and 
plenty of rivers and lakes) when building their eidolon, 
but apart from that, they’ll find they have a wide 
range of choices during Season of Ghosts. The most 
thematic choices for eidolons in this Adventure Path 
are anger phantom, beast, devotion phantom, plant, or 
psychopomp.
Swashbucklers are like fighters in that they’ll find 
plenty of chances to show their stuff in this campaign’s 
battles, but they should consider an option to explore 
during downtime or while in urban areas when fighting 
isn’t the best solution.
Thaumaturges are excellent choices for Season of 
Ghosts, for like the investigator, they’ll be faced with a 
wide range of mysteries and ancient secrets to explore 
and uncover. All thaumaturge implements could find 
thematic links to build from in this campaign, but 
perhaps none more so than the lantern, considering 
Willowshore’s strong tradition with its Eternal Lantern 
(page 18). While you can’t select this particular lantern 
as your implement, a lantern crafted in its image would 
fit right in!
Witches are perhaps an even more thematically 
appropriate choice for a spellcaster than sorcerer for 
Season of Ghosts, due to their ties with a mysterious 
patron and their horror-adjacent themes built right into 
the class. Speak with your GM when choosing your 
patron for additional guidance, but the patron themes 
of curse, night, wild, and winter are always going to 
be excellent choices in this Adventure Path. When 
choosing a familiar, keep in mind that Willowshore is 
associated with a traditional guardian along its eastern 
edge in the form of a large stone spider in a shrine just 
off the road—as such, choosing a spider familiar is 
quite on theme!
Wizards will find their mastery over magic to be 
something the people of Willowshore quite value—
provided their focus isn’t on something unsettling and 
frightening! That said, all schools of magic will have 
ample opportunities for use during this Adventure 
Path. A PC wizard might wish to pursue an alliance 
or friendship with Igawa Jubei of Mother’s Coil, 
Willowshore’s resident wizard and scholar of all things 
magical.
FAITHS
Willowshore features two temples—one devoted to 
Daikitsu and one to Pharasma—but the townsfolk are 
much more diverse in their faith. In addition to these 
two faiths, both Abadar and Lady Nanbyo count many 
worshippers among their flock, and most townsfolk pay 
homage to a wide range of other deities. Their worship is 
reflected in the large number of small shrines to various 
faiths scattered throughout town. Some of these shrines, 
like those devoted to Daikitsu and Pharasma, are in 
well‑known locations, but many are private shrines or 
shrines that have been all but forgotten.
Shrines to the following deities are found in 
Willowshore; if your character worships one of these 
Player’s Guide
8

deities, then they’ll automatically know the location 
of that shrine: Abadar, Calistria, Daikitsu, Desna, 
Ketephys, Kofusachi, Lady Nanbyo, Lao Shu Po, 
Nalinivati, Pharasma, Qi Zhong, Shelyn, Shizuru, 
Tsukiyo, and Yaezhing. If you choose to worship a 
deity beyond those listed here, speak with your GM—
your faith might even result in another shrine being 
added to Willowshore’s list!
Note that certain faiths, such as those of Arazni, 
Casandalee, or Nocticula, either don’t yet exist or 
haven’t yet undergone the significant changes they 
made in the hundred or so years after the start of the 
Age of Lost Omens. Likewise, while Aroden’s death is 
only a few years in the past, his faith isn’t significant 
in Tian Xia—and certainly not in Willowshore. Your 
character should avoid worshipping such deities as a 
result of this Adventure Path’s timeline.
Beyond the town’s wide range of deities, many in 
Willowshore are followers of Sangpotshi. Indeed, the 
original founders of the town were adherents to this 
belief. They built the Tan Sugi Monastery up in the hills 
to the west as a remote place to pursue enlightenment 
through this philosophy, and they founded Willowshore 
to first support those who toiled to build the monastery, 
and later as a trade hub to support the monks. The Tan 
Sugi Monastery is now abandoned and has been left 
to ruin (and, some maintain, to various ghosts and 
monsters), but many in Willowshore still follow the 
path of Sangpotshi.
LANGUAGES
In Season of Ghosts, the primary language spoken is 
Tien—this language is referred to as Common in this 
Player’s Guide and throughout the Season of Ghosts 
Adventure Path. The languages of any of the common 
ancestries listed above (elven, halfling, kitsune, nagaji, 
and tengu) might find frequent use as well.
General-use languages that will be handy to know 
at various points during Season of Ghosts include 
Abyssal, Aklo, Necril, and Sylvan.
More specific languages that aren’t as useful for 
the entire campaign but might become situationally 
important for a small number of encounters include 
Celestial, Draconic, Goblin, Hwan, Minkaian, Requian, 
and Samsaran.
SKILLS AND FEATS
You’ll face a wide range of challenges and opportunities 
in Season of Ghosts, particularly when it comes to 
downtime. This Adventure Path spans an entire year, 
after all, and now and then, you’ll be spending weeks at 
a time pursuing various downtime activities. Skills that 
feature often in combat encounters (or immediately 
following), such as Acrobatics, Athletics, Medicine, 
and Stealth, will be consistently useful throughout the 
campaign, with some of them (particularly Athletics) 
having significant other applications during various 
downtime pursuits.
Of the four skills associated with magical traditions, 
Nature and Religion will have significant opportunities 
to shine throughout the entire Adventure Path. Arcana 
comes into its own more in the second half of this 
four‑part campaign, as does Occultism.
Skills that help with social interaction, such as 
Diplomacy, Intimidation, and Society, will see constant 
use throughout Season of Ghosts. Deception will often 
be useful in encounter mode, of course, to Create a 
Diversion or Feint, but its chances to shine outside of 
combat are minimal (if important) during the first half 
of the campaign—in the second half, skill at Deception 
becomes much more important.
Being able to subsist and be self-sufficient, or helping 
the remote town of Willowshore with the same goals, 
makes Survival an important skill throughout the 
campaign. Thievery will likewise be of great use, both 
in dealing with hazards but also periodically for certain 
downtime activities or challenges that might require 
more subtlety.
Crafting becomes an important skill as well after 
the first adventure concludes, where you’ll increasingly 
be called upon during downtime events and activities 
to build, repair, or otherwise use this skill. While 
opportunities to use Performance to accomplish goals 
will be less common, each adventure will have a few 
moments where skill in this area can solve problems 
with ease.
An extensive number of Lore skills are helpful in this 
campaign. Often when a downtime activity becomes 
available, a specific Lore skill will have a lower DC than 
something more generalized skills like Deception or 
Society. The most important Lore skill in this Adventure 
Path is Willowshore Lore, as one would expect of a 
campaign set almost entirely within and around this 
small town! Other important Lore skills that will 
have more than a couple opportunities to shine in the 
campaign include Academia, Art, Engineering, Farming, 
Hunting, Library, Sangpotshi, and Tea Lore. Lore skills 
that will have only one or two chances to shine include 
any to do with non-tea food or drink, Architecture, 
Cooking, Fishing, Fortune-Telling, Games, Genealogy, 
Player’s Guide
9

Guild, Herbalism, Jorogumo, Labor, Mercantile, 
Midwifery, Qi-Zhong, River, Sailing, Scouting, Theater, 
Underworld, and Warfare Lore.
One new lore skill worthy of note that isn’t 
represented in the Core Rulebook but will become 
increasingly useful in this campaign is one associated 
with a specific family of new monster introduced in 
Season of Ghosts. Once your group discovers this new 
type of monster, becoming trained in its lore will help 
you prepare for combat against them or otherwise 
research plot elements to come, but not having any 
particular training in this specific Lore skill when 
you begin Season of Ghosts is not only fine, but part 
of the unfolding plot of the campaign. It’s mentioned 
here merely to prepare you for future opportunities for 
those players who enjoy building their character’s level 
choices out beforehand.
You should avoid feats that work best in large cities 
or that rely upon long-distance travel beyond what 
you could do in a few days, as these elements don’t 
play a role in Season of Ghosts. Feats that help you 
to interact with other townsfolk, bolster your ability 
to be self‑sufficient, or would generally prove useful 
to anyone living out a year of their life in a remote 
woodland town will be more useful than normal.
ARCHETYPES
As you grow more powerful, the option to select an 
archetype can help you to further customize your 
character and make them more thematically appropriate 
for Season of Ghosts. Most multiclass archetypes 
work well for a Season of Ghosts campaign (with 
the exception of gunslinger), while other thematically 
appropriate archetypes from the Advanced Player’s 
Guide include the following: blessed one (associated 
with one of the deities who have shrines in Willowshore), 
bounty hunter or duelist (both particularly when used 
to create a ronin-themed character), herbalist, horizon 
walker (forest), loremaster, marshal, or martial artist. 
The ritualist archetype (Advanced Player’s Guide 187) 
is particularly well-suited to this campaign, as Season 
of Ghosts features a wide number of rituals and offers 
many opportunities to use them.
GEAR
Season of Ghosts takes place in Tian Xia, and as such, 
the following uncommon weapons from the Core 
Rulebook are accessible to every PC upon character 
creation: kama, katana, nunchaku, sai, shuriken, and 
temple sword.
The following uncommon weapons from Advanced 
Player’s Guide are accessible to every PC upon character 
creation: daikyu*, khakkara, tengu gale blade, and 
wakizashi.
The following uncommon weapons from Pathfinder 
Treasure Vault are accessible to every PC upon character 
creation: butterfly sword*, feng huo lun*, fighting fan, 
hook sword*, jiu huan dao, kusarigama, naginata, 
rope dart, sansetsukon, tekko-kagi, and three-section 
naginata*.
An asterisk indicates this option is also an advanced 
weapon.
BACKGROUNDS
Unlike most Adventure Paths, Season of Ghosts 
takes place almost entirely in and near the town of 
Willowshore and assumes the PCs are all long-term 
citizens of this settlement. As such, it’s likely that your 
PC has family or close friends in town—you should 
work with your GM to create these additional NPCs 
to help populate Willowshore! Each of the custom 
backgrounds offered in this Player’s Guide come with 
suggestions on where your PC lives in town, so you 
can use these suggestions to help decide who in your 
character’s immediate family is in town and who 
might not be—but keep in mind, if you decide to 
have important family members located outside of the 
Willowshore hinterlands, you likely won’t be able to 
visit them during this campaign!
When you create a character for Season of Ghosts, 
you can choose one of the following two methods for 
selecting your character’s background.
Standard Background
If you wish to simply pick a standard background from 
the Core Rulebook, good thematic choices for Season 
of Ghosts include artisan, bounty hunter, charlatan, 
criminal, detective, entertainer, farmhand, gambler, 
guard, herbalist, hermit, hunter, laborer, martial 
disciple, merchant, scholar, street urchin, and warrior.
Additional standard backgrounds are available in 
Advanced Player’s Guide; good thematic choices from 
that book include cook, pilgrim, root worker, servant, 
teacher, or ward.
Seasonal Boon: Instead of gaining a specific seasonal 
boon (an additional benefit characters who choose 
Season of Ghosts backgrounds gain), you instead gain 
the option to, once per season (summer, fall, winter, 
or spring—thus, once per adventure during Season of 
Ghosts), gain a +4 status bonus to a check attempted to 
Player’s Guide
10

resolve any downtime activity; you can choose to apply 
this bonus after you roll the check.
Season of Ghosts Backgrounds
The six new backgrounds presented on the following 
pages are available to all characters in the Season of 
Ghosts Adventure Path. Each of these rare backgrounds 
are tailor-made to match the themes of this Adventure 
Path and include a bit of flavor about the Reenactment 
Festival and why you were chosen to be one of the 
festival’s abductees.
Seasonal Boon: Each of these backgrounds grants you 
a seasonal boon. You can use a seasonal boon at any 
time as a free action (with a trigger as described in your 
background) but only once per season (summer, fall, 
winter, spring—corresponding to the four adventures 
in the Season of Ghosts Adventure Path). If you don’t 
use a seasonal boon during an adventure, it’s lost—
unused seasonal boons don’t carry over into the next 
adventure.
CLOSE TIES	
BACKGROUND
RARE
You’ve forged a close friendship with one of Willowshore’s 
notable citizens, and you have a long tradition of sharing 
tea with each other while chatting about shared interests, 
plans for the future, town gossip, or other matters of note. 
Work with your GM to choose one of the NPCs mentioned 
in the Willowshore Gazetteer (other than Granny Hu or Old 
Matsuki)—your GM might have suggestions for which NPC 
makes the most sense for your character or might know 
something about an NPC’s eventual role in the campaign 
that would give your character a compelling story beat. 
You could be an employee or apprentice of this NPC, a 
close relation or friend, or even a friendly competitor in 
some way.
Your home is likely relatively close to the place of 
business or home of your NPC ally.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely spent time 
with your NPC ally and might have made plans to get 
together the next day on the first day of summer, perhaps 
have tea together. You were chosen to be an abductee 
during the Reenactment Festival because your NPC friend 
or ally suggested the experience would be fun or good for 
you, or because they’d done it the previous year at your 
urging and now “it’s your turn.”
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Charisma or 
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Tea Lore 
skill. You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat (choose a 
specialty associated with your allied NPC), and your allied 
NPC begins with an attitude of friendly toward the party 
(rather than indifferent, which is the initial norm for all 
Willowshore NPCs).
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger Someone in the party makes 
an NPC in Willowshore friendly; Effect Your reputation 
precedes you, even if you aren’t the one making the attempt 
to influence an NPC. The NPC is made helpful instead of 
friendly. Making an NPC helpful can unlock additional 
support from their location in Willowshore—your GM has 
more information about this mechanic.
FOLKLORE ENTHUSIAST	
BACKGROUND
RARE
Willowshore is a small town in a rural part of Shenmen, 
but that doesn’t exempt it from the world of the strange 
and unexplained. There are plenty of mysterious 
events and haunting legends about Willowshore or its 
hinterlands, and as a result of your upbringing, you’ve 
become particularly interested in learning more about 
them. While much of the regional folklore comes from one 
of Willowshore’s many religions and local faiths (of which 
you might be a practicing member or perhaps instead have 
a secular interest in the lore), you’ve noticed that these 
beliefs also influence artisans and crafters in ways they 
might not even realize. You’re convinced that many of 
these local beliefs have roots in a deeper, historical event 
of great significance and hope one day to learn more about 
Willowshore’s true history.
If you’re religious, your home is likely near a shrine 
associated with your faith—if your faith isn’t represented 
among Willowshore’s shrines, speak with your GM about 
potentially having a shrine to your faith in or near to your 
home.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely spent time 
chatting with others about ghost stories and sharing 
spooky legends and tales. You weren’t chosen to be an 
abductee during the Reenactment Festival so much as 
you volunteered, eagerly, for the chance—you might have 
even participated in previous years as an abductee!
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence 
or Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Religion skill and the Art Lore 
skill. You gain the Oddity Identification skill feat.
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger You’re about to roll any check 
to Recall Knowledge; Effect You have a flash of insight as 
you recall an old parable, obscure legend, or applicable 
tale to the topic at hand. This Recall Knowledge check 
loses the secret trait. Increase the result of your check to 
Recall Knowledge by one degree of success.
Player’s Guide
11

NORTHRIDGE SCHOLAR	
BACKGROUND
RARE
The political faction of Northridge is focused on modern 
pragmatism and urban growth. While there are certainly 
those in this faction who regard those of Southshore as 
rubes, bumbling yokels, or stubborn traditionalists who 
would prefer Willowshore never grow, most of those 
following this local faction instead put their energy into 
developing Willowshore, envisioning a time when the town 
might grow into an important hub for trade. Your interests 
lie more along the concept of Willowshore as a place for 
learning—a school, library, or even small university could 
do so much for your town! Of course, as invigorating as it 
is to study and learn, you also understand that expanding 
Willowshore in such a way will require lots of hard work, and 
your childhood helping to lay foundations or raise buildings 
has given you a physique that eludes the typical scholar.
Your home is likely somewhere along the northern banks 
of the Ceiba River to the east of downtown Willowshore.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely helped to run 
some of the festivities or spent time simply sitting back to 
people-watch. You volunteered to be an abductee during the 
Reenactment Festival because the experience of taking part 
in one of the town’s longest-running traditions is an honor 
you’ve always wanted to experience.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or 
Strength, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and the Academia Lore 
skill. You gain the Additional Lore feat.
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger The party’s reputation with 
Northridge increases; Effect Increase the party’s reputation 
with Northridge by an additional 2 points (your GM has 
information about Willowshore reputation).
OUTSKIRT DWELLER	
BACKGROUND
RARE
While Willowshore is a lovely small town, even a 
population of 200 is a bit much for you. Whether you 
grew up in the town’s outskirts, or you grew frustrated 
and overwhelmed with town life and decided to move 
to the fringes, you’re only really at home when you’re 
surrounded by nature. You don’t look down on those 
who live in town, and you might be among the hunters, 
trappers, fishers, or herbalists who provide important 
support to those who lack such forestry skills.
Your home is on the outskirts of Willowshore and might 
not even be represented by an actual building on the map. 
With the GM’s permission, you might even dwell in a small 
building further out in the Willowshore hinterlands, but no 
further than a couple of miles from town.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely showed up 
late and weren’t intending to stay for long, but your friends 
and allies (the other PCs) convinced you to stick around. 
You were chosen to be an abductee during the Reenactment 
Festival at the last minute when someone else had to back 
out (perhaps as a result of overindulging during the feast), 
and your friends (the other PCs) convinced you to join them 
on what would be a fun, shared experience. And since it 
involves sleeping out under the stars in the woods, well, 
that’s a pretty lovely way to end an evening!
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Nature skill and the Hunting Lore 
skill. You gain the Terrain Expertise (forest) skill feat.
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger You’re about to roll initiative; 
Effect Something about the situation triggers your 
defenses, allowing you to react to sudden peril more 
quickly. You gain a status bonus to your initiative roll equal 
to the number of seasons since you’ve started Season of 
Ghosts (+1 during the first adventure, up to a maximum 
of +4 during the fourth and final adventure). If you can 
communicate a warning to other PCs, they gain this bonus 
to their initiative as well.
SOUTHBANK TRADITIONALIST	
BACKGROUND
RARE
The political faction of Southbank represents the original 
founders of Willowshore, a hearty band of settlers whose 
skills and focus tend toward the earthly and humble. 
While there are certainly those in this faction who regard 
Northridge as vapid urbanites, merchants, and power-
hungry politicians, most in Southbank devote their energy 
to helping Willowshore stay fed, honoring its long-standing 
traditions, and remaining relatively self-sufficient. Your 
interests in Willowshore’s history are closely tied to 
the traditions of farming and building what you need 
with your own two hands, as well as taking part in the 
shared oral history of the region. Whether it’s enjoying 
discussions with local elders about the past or helping 
newcomers learn Willowshore’s ways, you’re always eager 
to help uphold the town’s traditions.
Your home is likely located south of the Ceiba River, on 
the southernmost outskirts of town.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely spent time 
helping to set up the feasts, assisted in running some of 
the events, and otherwise worked behind the scenes. You 
were chosen to be an abductee during the Reenactment 
Festival because you lost a bet, owed a favor, or otherwise 
got pressured or tricked into the role by a family member, 
friend, or coworker. Perhaps someone who was going to 
Player’s Guide
12

be one of the abductees but had to back out at the last 
moment, and so you ended up taking their place.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Charisma or 
Constitution, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Farming Lore 
skill. You gain the Hobnobber feat.
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger The party’s reputation with 
Southbank increases; Effect Increase the party’s reputation 
with Southbank by an additional 2 points (your GM has 
information about Willowshore reputation).
WILLOWSHORE URCHIN	
BACKGROUND
As with any settlement, not all of Willowshore’s citizens 
are born into easy lives. You grew up on the town streets, 
either as an orphan or hardscrabble youth who was 
forced at a young age to help provide for your family. 
You might technically have had a home of your own, but 
for various reasons, you had, or preferred, to live most 
of your childhood outside of those walls. You might have 
run with a gang of kids (some of whom might even be 
fellow PCs), or you could’ve been a loner who managed 
to survive against all odds. Regardless, your childhood 
was one of forced ingenuity, desperation, and physicality. 
Hardly a week would’ve passed without you having to 
jury-rig a solution to some problem or to simply use your 
reflexes or brawn to solve a situation quickly before 
things escalated. While you might have left your old life 
behind you now that you’re all grown up, the time you 
spent on Willowshore’s streets have made you the person 
you are today.
You might still be technically homeless, subsisting on 
the street and never sleeping in the same place twice in a 
row. You might keep a small shanty or hideout somewhere 
in town as well. It’s also possible that, despite your 
childhood, you’ve been fortunate enough to find a family 
or home, in which case your home could be anywhere in 
Willowshore.
During the Reenactment Festival, you likely enjoyed the 
revelry... perhaps a bit too much! Festivals were always 
times of excitement in your childhood, and this one is no 
exception. You were chosen to be an abductee during the 
Reenactment Festival simply by chance—maybe your name 
was selected by a blind draw, or perhaps someone dared you 
to take part, or you could simply have craved the attention.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or 
Strength, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the Engineering 
Lore skill. You gain the Charming Liar feat.
Seasonal Boon [free-action] Trigger You (or an adjacent PC) are 
about to roll a recovery check; Effect You gain an automatic 
critical success on the recovery check rather than rolling it 
as your hearty physique, tenacious attitude, or just plain 
old luck continues to help you survive the way it had during 
your childhood. If you’re adjacent to a PC who’s about to roll 
a recovery check, you can instead use this boon to grant 
them this effect.
Background Adjustments
You can add one of the following two adjustments 
to any background to further modify your choice to 
match your vision for your PC.
Family: You and one (or more) other PCs are close 
family members (siblings, parent/child, married, etc.) 
If you take this adjustment, the other PC(s) who are 
your family must also take this adjustment. Choose one 
of the following to replace the skill feat you otherwise 
would’ve gained from your background. (You and your 
sibling need not share the same choice—a sibling who 
wants to keep their background’s skill feat can pick 
“Typical” from the list.)
Bickering: You have a long-standing feud with 
your sibling(s). Whenever your sibling(s) critically 
fail a significant skill check or attack roll and you 
witness their failure, you gain a +1 status bonus to 
your saving throws until the end of your next turn 
as you secretly (or perhaps not so secretly) delight 
in their failure.
Close-Knit: You and your sibling(s) work well 
together, and you go all-out to help them when 
they’re badly hurt. When you provide Aid or 
Administer First Aid to your sibling(s), the DC is 5 
lower than normal.
Typical: You have a standard relationship with 
your sibling(s); don’t change your background’s 
skill feat.
Foundling: You aren’t a native to Willowshore, but 
you did grow up in the town. You might have adoptive 
parents, or you could’ve grown up on the streets. 
Choose one of the following to replace the bonus feat 
you otherwise would’ve gained from your background.
Bitter: You appreciate the town of Willowshore 
but still resent the conditions that resulted in you 
being abandoned or left in the town. You gain the 
Intimidating Glare skill feat.
Mysterious: You keep secrets, and very few in 
Willowshore (if anyone) know your history before 
you settled in the town, in part because you’ve 
taken to learning about Willowshore by watching 
rather than engaging in conversation. You gain the 
Streetwise skill feat.
Player’s Guide
13

Outgoing: You’re grateful for the sense of 
belonging the townsfolk of Willowshore have 
extended to you and always do your best to 
repay that kindness. Once per week when you 
attempt a skill check to resolve a downtime 
activity that could benefit Willowshore (several 
of these activities are detailed in the adventures, 
and your GM can always make the call if 
another activity would qualify) and you fail that 
check, you instead succeed at the check, or if you 
critically fail at that check, you instead simply 
fail that check.
HOME AND HEIRLOOM
The final step for creating your Season of Ghosts 
character is to choose where you live in Willowshore. 
The town map presented on page 16 shows all of 
the buildings in Willowshore. If you chose a Season 
of Ghosts background, that choice suggests where in 
Willowshore your home is most likely to be located, 
but you need not be limited by this suggestion—you 
can pick any unlabeled smaller building on the map as 
your character’s home (note that your GM might have 
suggestions or plans for certain buildings beyond the 
expected scope of the adventure, so before you settle on 
your home, you’ll need GM approval).
SUGGESTED CHARACTER OPTIONS
Alignments 
Ancestries
Classes
Languages
Skills
Archetypes
Strongly 
Recommended
Any non-evil
Humans, elves, 
half-elves, 
halflings, kitsunes, 
nagajis, tengus
Bard, champion, 
druid, 
investigator, 
monk, oracle, 
ranger, rogue, 
thaumaturge, 
witch
Common (Tian)
Athletics, 
Diplomacy, 
Nature, Religion, 
Society, 
Willowshore Lore
Ritualist
Recommended
Any non-evil
Other core 
ancestries, 
aasimars, 
dhampirs, 
hobgoblins, 
leshies, ratfolks, 
riftmarked 
tieflings
Alchemist, cleric, 
fighter, magus, 
psychic, sorcerer, 
summoner, 
swashbuckler, 
wizard
Abyssal, Aklo, 
Elven, Halfling, 
Kitsune, Necril, 
Sylvan
Arcana, Crafting, 
Deception, 
Intimidation, 
Occultism, 
Survival, Thievery
Blessed one, 
bounty hunter, 
duelist, herbalist, 
horizon walker, 
loremaster, 
marshal, martial 
artist
Appropriate
Any non-evil
All other 
ancestries (save 
those below)
All other classes 
(save those below)
Celestial, 
Draconic, Goblin, 
Hwan, Minkaian, 
Nagaji, Requian, 
Samsaran, Tengu
Acrobatics, 
Medicine, 
Performance, 
Stealth
All other 
archetypes (save 
those below)
Not 
Recommended
Any evil
Androids, aquatic 
ancestries
Gunslinger
All others
—
Assassin, 
gunslinger 
multiclass, pirate, 
vigilante, viking
ABOUT YOUR FAMILY
Although Willowshore is your character’s 
home, and they might have close family 
dwelling in town, Season of Ghosts doesn’t 
incorporate any potential PC family members 
into the adventure plots at all. If your character 
has parents, siblings, children, romantic 
partners, or other family living with them in 
Willowshore, talk with your GM about whether 
you’d like them to play purely a background role 
or, with the GM’s aid, take up a more integral 
part of the campaign’s plot. In particular, let 
your GM know if you’re comfortable potentially 
having family members become threatened by 
elements in Season of Ghosts, and make sure 
the other players are okay with this element 
as well. Again, there are no plot elements in 
Season of Ghosts that directly imperil any PC’s 
family (beyond the existential peril facing all 
of Willowshore’s inhabitants), but for some 
players and groups, involving family in stories 
like this one can make the experience more 
challenging and rewarding.
Player’s Guide
14

Once you’ve chosen your home, pick one of the 
following four sets of treasure. When you start 
Season of Ghosts, the treasure you selected is still 
stored back home. While you won’t have access to 
it when the first adventure begins, it won’t be long 
into the adventure before each PC will have the 
opportunity to return home and gather their family 
treasures for use!
When selecting these treasures, each player must 
choose a different option—only if there are more than 
four players in the group can you choose a treasure 
already selected by another player.
•	 Two minor healing potions and one piece of 
common adventuring gear worth 2 gp or less of 
the PC’s choice.
•	 One predictable silver piece (Advanced Player’s 
Guide 262) and a vial containing one dose of oil 
of potency.
•	 Supplies for an alarm snare, 10 sp, and two lesser 
ghost charges (Advanced Player’s Guide 253).
•	 One cold-iron chunk worth 10 gp.
Willowshore Gazetteer
In 7020, the Tan Sugi Monastery was founded by a 
Sangpotshi monk named Zhi Hui. Built around an 
ancient sugi tree said to have mystic properties, the 
Tan Sugi Monastery was incredibly remote, nestled 
in a wooded valley within an unsettled reach of 
Specterwood. Willowshore was originally founded to 
support those who built the monastery, and the long 
trail that connected the town to the monastery became 
known as the Pilgrim’s Path. Once construction of 
the monastery ended, Willowshore’s focus shifted 
to an increasingly self-sufficient lifestyle that only 
periodically needed to support the monks.
Zhi Hui passed away in 7054, and as the monks of 
the monastery began to drift away, Willowshore itself 
shifted focus to the lumber industry. By 7060, the 
monastery had been abandoned, but when a group 
of woodcutters attempted to harvest the ancient sugi 
trees that grew there in 7062, tragedy struck. The 
woodcutters returned to Willowshore with broken 
weapons and unliving bodies that evening, and 
while these undead woodcutters were defeated by 
morning, dozens of townsfolk had perished during 
the struggle. The event is remembered today as the 
“Night of Broken Blades,” and few visitors have 
made the journey to the ruined monastery in the 46 
years since. The place is regarded now as cursed, 
haunted, or worse.
As the years wore on, Shenmen officially enlisted 
Willowshore to become part of Lung Wa’s lumber 
harvesting ambitions. Things started out well, with 
the construction of infrastructure including bridges 
and a dam. However, the lumber bosses who ran the 
harvesting operation soon became loathed for their 
exploitation of Willowshore’s ascetic past. Worse, they 
began to present the settlement (now properly called a 
town) as a “getaway” for Lung Wa aristocrats to hunt 
for sport and indulge in food and drinks forcefully 
seized in the empire’s name.
When Lung Wa collapsed in 7106, Willowshore’s 
lumber lords took their wealth, abandoned their 
estates, and fled. Most of the soldiers stationed in 
town returned to Shenmen’s capital or deserted their 
posts, leaving behind those who had put down local 
roots. Willowshore’s remoteness saved it from rampant 
banditry and external political conflicts that had begun 
to plague Shenmen, but as you will soon discover when 
you begin to play Season of Ghosts, the time has come 
for Willowshore to face the new world.
PEOPLE OF WILLOWSHORE
Most of Willowshore’s citizens identify by when their 
family first settled in town, often affecting which 
bank of the Ceiba River they live on. The first wave 
of townspeople were either those who worked on the 
monastery or were paid to settle in Willowshore by 
THE EIGHT PRACTICES
The people of Willowshore follow these eight 
bits of advice during the first several weeks of 
summer—the season of ghosts. These beliefs are 
primarily local superstitions, and their capacity 
to actually help in an encounter with any sort of 
malicious spirit is hotly debated.
1.	 Do not call a ghost a ghost.
2.	Do not pat people on the head or shoulders.
3.	Avoid entering bodies of water when a ghost 
is nearby.
4.	Do not eat food that has two stick-like objects 
protruding from it.
5.	Do not lean against walls during the day. 
6.	Do not whistle at night.
7.	Do not leave laundry out at night.
8.	If you hear someone call your name from 
behind you at night, do not turn around.
Player’s Guide
15

the monastery. These folks originally lived south of the 
river and are thus referred to as Southbankers. Those 
who arrived after Lung Wa took control, meanwhile, 
settled on the river’s northern banks, called Northridge 
due to its prominent incline. These settlers included 
workers for the lumber bosses, businesses that wanted 
convenient access to the lumber, and imperial guards. 
Though these two factions in Willowshore today 
use the names Southbank and Northridge, one’s 
allegiance isn’t solely determined by where they live or 
work. Southbank residents are traditionalists, keen on 
maintaining Willowshore’s culture and living simply 
off the land. Northridge residents, meanwhile, focus on 
pragmatism and urban growth. Many in Northridge 
are open to the idea of jorogumo ruling Shenmen, 
while Southbankers on principle think jorogumo are 
evil monsters and best avoided.
Despite disagreements, both sides have a consensus 
on putting Willowshore’s survival and safety first. 
Plenty of residents have their own opinions that lean in 
neither direction and consider themselves unaffiliated 
with either faction. Overall, Willowshore values giving 
all one has to offer. In many ways, the village has no 
choice, especially as the events of this adventure evolve.
As you play Season of Ghosts, your actions and 
choices as a group will build reputation with these 
two factions; your GM has all the rules and guidance 
needed to track reputation and implement its effects in 
the game as play progresses.
Current trending topics in Willowshore focus on the 
recent exodus of the lumber lords, rumors of jorogumo 
seizing control of the nation, and preparations for the 
upcoming season of ghosts.
WILLOWSHORE	
SETTLEMENT 4
N
TOWN
Isolated lumber town
Government Appointed governor (Heh Shan-Bao)
Population 225 (73% humans, 6% half-elves, 4% halflings, 
4% kitsune, 3% elves, 3% tengu, 2% nagaji, 5% others)
Languages Common (Tien), Elven, Halfling, Minatan, Nagaji, 
Tengu, Tian-hwa, Tian-min
Religions Abadar, Daikitsu, Lady Nanbyo, Pharasma, 
Sangpotshi, others (represented by small shrines)
Threats malicious spirits, ravenous vermin, struggling 
self‑sufficiency, supernatural influences, territorial beasts
Teeth-Clenching Teamwork Willowshore’s residents help 
one another despite differences. You can attempt to 
WILLOWSHORE
WILLOWSHORE
W17
W17
W11
W11
W9
W9
W26
W26
W15
W15
W5
W5
W10
W10
W13
W13
W14
W14
W12
W12
W8
W8
W7
W7
W5
W5
W6
W6
W4
W4
W3
W3
W2
W2
W1
W1
W20
W20
W21
W21
W24
W24
W22
W22
W23
W23
W30
W30
W29
W29
W19
W19
W16
W16
W27
W27
W28
W28
W25
W25
W18
W18
Ceiba Creek
Ceiba Creek
Ceiba River
Ceiba River
 Duyue River
 Duyue River
1200 FEET
1200 FEET
Player’s Guide
16

Request help from another Willowshore resident even if 
they’re indifferent or unfriendly, but you do so with a –2 
circumstance penalty.
“Granny” Hu Ban-niang (LN female Tian-shu retired guard 
captain) retired imperial guard captain
“Old” Matsuki Shou (NG male Tian-shu family patriarch) 
retired carpenter and Willowshore’s living history
Heh Shan-Bao (LN male Tian-shu governor) appointed 
administrator of Willowshore
WILLOWSHORE LOCATIONS
Significant 
buildings 
and 
important 
people found in Willowshore are detailed 
on the following pages, with numbers 
corresponding to the locations on the map 
on page 16. Unlabeled buildings are wooden 
structures that might be shops, homes, 
farmhouses, storerooms, or have 
other usage depending on their 
location and, with the GM’s 
permission, can be selected as 
homes for any PC.
W1. Eternal Blaze Ironworks
In the days of the monastery’s 
construction, the Eternal Blaze Ironworks 
was responsible for creating metal items from 
cookware, woodworking tools, and small metal parts, 
such as hinges, locks, and keys for chests. Yong Wu-Xiu 
(female kitsune blacksmith) inherited the business from 
her father about a decade ago.
Wares: metalworks, adventuring gear (especially 
cookware), metal armor, metal weapons, metal shields
W2. Willowshore Stables
Willowshore Stables is the town’s veterinary facility for 
household animals, pets, and livestock. Incidentally, 
Willowshore Stables’ use of livestock as beasts of 
burden influenced the village’s food culture, causing 
many households to avoid the consumption of 
beef. The owner, Kum Soon-chong (male human 
veterinarian), and his teenage son, Meng-sung (male 
human veterinarian), are well-known for their affable 
attitudes and compassion for all kinds of animals.
Wares: animal rentals, barding, saddle bags, land 
vehicles
W3. Abadar Shrine
This darkwood-trimmed shrine houses a 3-foot-tall 
limestone statue of Abadar that holds a shovel in 
one hand and a trowel in the other. The statue was 
reportedly taken to Goka first to ritualistically invite 
Abadar’s divine blessings at the Grand Bank before 
being ferried back to Willowshore.
W4. Graveside Manners
Willowshore’s residents practiced cremation in its 
early days to prevent undeath. The tombs in this 
old cemetery house the urns of many of those 
early settlers. Today, only a few families use 
Graveside Manners as a burial ground. The 
headstones remain free of lichen and moss 
thanks to the graveyard’s keeper, You So-Jin 
(female elf herbalist). Once a pilgrim who 
frequented the Tan Sugi monastery, So-Jin 
settled in Willowshore after the monastery’s 
collapse 
and 
maintains 
an 
herbalist 
shop—the primary reason anyone visits 
Graveside Manners today.
Wares: alchemical elixirs and 
tools, alchemical reagents, fresh 
and dried herbs
W5. Silvermist Lodges
The Silvermist Lodges are split 
between two small compounds in the 
woods south of town. At each location, the lodges’ 
woodwork conforms to the grain of the wood, giving 
the buildings an organic look associated with elven 
architecture. In the days when Willowshore first tried 
to become self‑sufficient, eight elven adventurers came 
and took up an offer to settle in the village, seeing 
the request as a short-term contract given their life 
spans. Though none of these original eight elves live 
in Willowshore anymore, they left many offspring and 
descendants behind.
Wares: animal parts, snare supplies
W6. Matsuki Estate
The man that Willowshore calls “Old” Matsuki 
(male human carpenter) once apprenticed to the head 
carpenter of the Tan Sugi monastery. After taking 
leave from his master, he led his family to construct 
a large Tian-shu/Minkaian estate to house all two 
dozen of them. Reportedly, the superstitious patriarch 
then made sure that the outer walls were whitewashed 
with limestone containing blessed salts and holy 
water. Today, Old Matsuki is the most influential of 
Willowshore’s Southbank faction and serves as the 
faction’s spokesman.
Player’s Guide
17
Old Matsuki

W7. Thrice-Blessed Inn
Willowshore’s Thrice-Blessed Inn began as the 
Thrice‑Blessed Brothel, for it was founded by three 
clerics of Kofusachi, Calistria, and Shelyn. Political 
complications forced the brothel’s owner, Mother 
Otis (genderfluid half-elf innkeeper), to shut down 
the establishment only a few years before Lung Wa’s 
collapse. With the aid of Willowshore’s local lawyer, 
Luo Xi Yang, Mother Otis was able to rely upon 
an obscure law that prevented their eviction 
and allowed them to continue to operate the 
building as an inn.
W8. Milling Houses
Willowshore 
has 
numerous 
millhouses, 
including two powered by water, three by wind, 
and ten powered by people or draft animals. The 
abundance ensures that losing one or two mills 
to routine maintenance or malfunction never 
jeopardizes the village’s needs.
Work at the mills is intense, and the hours 
can be irregular due to the demand each day. 
The millers’ leader, Choe Chung-hu (male 
human miller), keeps morale high with 
encouragement, 
pushing 
back 
against 
unreasonable demands, keeping wages stable, and 
offering midnight snacks.
Wares: De-husked grain, grain flour, stone 
objects
W9. Nine Ear Shrine
This mud-wall hut looks like a grain storage 
hut from the outside. Its interior descends 
10 feet underground into an enclosed space 
lined with stone, in the middle of which sits a 
15-foot‑tall marble statue of a nine‑tailed fox. 
A large spiritual rope made of hay 
hangs off its neck. The walls of 
the basement are decorated with 
painted carvings that depict 
stories of Daikitsu.
Fifteen years ago, a desperate 
mother of the Ouh family hid her 
baby here as the family was rounded up for 
execution by a corrupt guard. By the time the guards 
learned about the missing offspring, a large skulk of 
foxes had surrounded the temple. Unwilling to tempt 
divine wrath, the guards retreated. Allies of the family 
soon arrived to rescue the baby, at which point the 
foxes vanished.
That baby, Ba-Ming Ouh (female human 
priest), grew up under the care of distant 
relatives. While she shows signs of the Ouh 
family’s inclinations toward the veneration 
of nature, Ba-Ming wishes to return her 
life debt by serving Daikitsu. While some question her 
intentions, most Willowshorers support her dedication.
Wares: fulus, scrolls, talismans
W10. Lady of Souls
One of Lung Wa’s chief concerns when they 
first expanded into Willowshore was to reduce 
the likelihood of an undead uprising. They 
solved it by building a cathedral to Pharasma.
Elizeth Candora (female human cleric), 
a second-generation Taldan from Goka, 
is the current priestess here. Having once 
visited Willowshore and the Tan Sugi 
monastery as a child, Elizeth never 
imagined that becoming a cleric 
of Pharasma would lead to an 
opportunity for her to permanently 
return to the village she vividly recalls. 
She sees the coincidence as fate arranged 
by Pharasma’s hands and therefore serves dutifully 
and diligently. She’s fond of spending time alone 
in the graveyard with her flute and often plays the 
instrument there to help soothe the spirits of those 
recently buried therein.
Wares: consumable religious items, divine scrolls
THE ETERNAL LANTERN
This minor artifact is an immobile object gifted 
to the town of Willowshore by the founder 
of the Tan Sugi Monastery, Zhi Hui. For the 
town’s entire history, the Eternal Lantern has 
stood sentinel near the settlement’s heart, 
its light never wavering after Zhi Hui placed 
a few copper coins within it. Some believe 
that it’s possible to receive blessings 
from the deities whose shrines stand 
in Willowshore by placing copper coins 
within the Eternal Lantern in exchange for 
additional protection, but for the most part, 
the people of Willowshore have become 
used to the ever-burning lantern at the 
southern steps of Dawnstep Bridge.
Player’s Guide
18
Elizeth Candora
Eternal Lantern

W11. Dawnstep Bridge
After the Thrice-Blessed Brothel was established (but 
before it became an inn), Willowshore’s population 
had grown enough in size to be considered a town 
by Shenmen standards, meaning that a lit lantern 
must be maintained at all times within the town 
near the entrance, at a major crossroads, or 
at a bridge. The lack of a lit lantern at one 
of these locations suggests that the town is 
abandoned, which is believed to invite 
vermin, ghosts, dangerous beasts, and 
worse. Today, Willowshore features two 
such lanterns, but the one that stands 
here, the Eternal Lantern, is both its 
oldest and most notable.
W12. Industrial District
Willowshore’s Lung Wa lumber 
bosses had a host of other 
businesses related to materials taken 
from the woods. Many industrial workers came to 
Willowshore explicitly for this work, leaving family 
and friends behind.
After the lumber bosses left, Governor Heh seized 
control and ordered the laborers to continue working. 
Upset that they had no choice in the matter, they’ve 
been gathering late at night under the guidance of 
Kawaka (male tengu guild leader), a senior bookmaker, 
to discuss how they should negotiate with the governor 
to release those who want to leave and fairly pay those 
who elect to stay.
With the collapse of Lung Wa, many of the businesses 
that once thrived here have closed up shop. The only 
ones still functioning are Cloud Paper House (a paper 
mill run by Kwaka), Jadeite Essentials (a distillery), and 
Rebel’s Leatherworks (a tannery).
Wares: alcohol, essential oils and perfume, glassware 
and glass items, hide and leather items, paper and 
paper products such as spellbooks and formula books
W13. Woodraft Lake
The first governor appointed to Willowshore by Lung 
Wa made an effort to tame the notorious Ceiba River 
through various engineering feats. Part of that effort, 
plus the demand for wet storage for wood, led to 
the construction of the Willowshore Dam—and by 
extension, Woodraft Lake.
Many protested the construction at first, as the 
resulting lake would submerge some homes and 
farmlands—including the village’s shrine to Lady 
Nanbyo. A few imprisonments later, all complaints 
ceased. The dam was completed in due time. While 
the governor earned themself a promotion and left 
Willowshore soon after, they didn’t get to enjoy before a 
landslide buried them on a bright sunny day. While the 
story’s veracity is somewhat dubious, subsequent 
governors have never stopped Willowshore’s 
villagers from treating the lake as a shrine to 
the Widow of Suffering.
W14. Willowshore Dam
Willowshore’s dam is a minor engineering 
marvel. Its main body is constructed out of 
immense, precisely fitted slabs of dark‑gray 
marble, 
carved 
with 
a 
carefully 
calculated curvature. The dam has 
two giant wooden gates that can be 
closed or opened to lower the level of 
the lake. Turning the wheel that controls 
the gates automatically causes a bell to ring, 
signaling anyone downriver to move away to safety.
W15. Downtown Willowshore
Downtown Willowshore remains a major hub of 
activity in town. To the northeast stands the governor’s 
home and office, which also serves as the village’s 
bank and treasury. South of the manor lie the imperial 
barracks, commanded by Zheng Peng (male human 
watch officer). To the north of the crossroad is the 
stage for the village’s weekly Shu Opera performance, 
which is part of the Seven-Colored Songbird theater, a 
venue officiated over by Kazuma Oono (male kitsune 
director). Nearby on opposite sides of the road is one 
of Willowshore’s busiest stores, Treesparrow’s Rest, 
and Willowshore’s only public bathhouse, the Happy 
Kappa. Treesparrow’s is a family-owned grocery store 
run by Nadoya Sanmi (female human family matriarch), 
while the Happy Kappa’s owner, De-Ge Hua (male 
halfling bathhouse owner) is famous in town for his 
obsession with cleanliness.
Wares: alcohol, bathing, entertainment, grains, 
household supplies and tools, preserved foods, rations
W16. Luo and Laws
Lung Wa’s laws, after being revised time and time 
again by self-serving rulers, are a bag of contradictions 
allowing independent lawyers, such as Luo Xi Yang 
(female human lawyer), to make a decent living 
attempting to make sense of them. Promised by the 
lumber lords who invited her here that rural life 
Player’s Guide
19
Zheng Peng

would be less stressful, Xi Yang arrived with only the 
essential 10-volume Imperial Compendium. Quickly, 
the lawyer discovered that Willowshore’s legal issues 
were as complicated, if not more so, than what she’d 
previously encountered in the city of Sze, and 
thus her library grew to a size that doubled 
the one in her former home.
W17. Mercantile Street
Willowshore’s newer businesses, particularly 
those associated with woodcarving, are 
mostly found in one of the two-storied 
red‑brick buildings along Mercantile Street. 
To ensure the lumber lords would never 
favor anyone, the woodcarvers came 
together to form a guild, through 
which young apprentices have the 
opportunity to intern at different 
shops during their apprenticeship. 
Yun 
Mong-Un 
(female 
human 
woodcarver), 
the 
woodcarver’s 
current 
elected guild leader, is a product of such training. 
Though heaped with praise for her work, Mong-Un 
would rather be a painter or jewelry maker.
Wares: artwork, wood items, wooden religious 
symbols
W18. Second Best
When 
Huo Tian-Zhe 
(male 
human 
inventor) arrived in Willowshore with 
his blacksmith father from Karahai 
(Willowshore’s 
closest 
neighboring 
settlement to the east) about five years 
ago to assist with the maintenance 
of 
Willowshore’s 
dam, 
the 
urban-born 
son 
thought 
he was about to show the 
“second-rated 
smiths 
of 
the countryside” how to get 
things done. Quickly, Tian-Zhe 
realized his own skills were subpar to 
even the youngest apprentice of the Eternal Blaze and 
that his fancily-designed farm gadgets were more akin 
to toys than machines of marvels. Humbled, Tian‑Zhe 
asked his father to stay in Willowshore so he could 
learn to be a “smith of use.” Begrudgingly accepting 
the abrupt request, Tian-Zhe’s father nevertheless gave 
his son a handful of gold to order a new shop sign. 
As a reminder to himself, Tian-Zhe boldly named his 
workshop “Second Best.”
In the last five years, Tian-Zhe’s products have 
garnered some loyal customers, and his knowledge of 
machinery won over Yong Wu-Xiu such that the old 
smith tasked him with the maintenance of the dam.
Wares: 
adventuring 
tools, 
alchemical 
ammunition, alchemical bombs, clockwork 
gadgets, and simple armor, metal weapons, 
and shields
W19. The Hand of Spring
Willowshore relied heavily on home 
remedies, herbal droughts, and traveling 
priests for medical care until the arrival 
of Doctor Damihansig Mababangloob 
(male 
human 
doctor), 
whom 
everyone calls Dami for short. 
Dami uses a mix of acupuncture, 
purified chemicals, and surgery 
to provide care. Though his 
treatments aren’t what Willowshore 
is used to, Dami has developed quite a 
reputation for being a charitable doctor who cares 
more about his patients than monetary gain.
Wares: alchemical healing items, healer’s kit supplies, 
nonmagical healing items
W20. Mother’s Coil
Magic was traditionally seen in Willowshore 
as either a manifestation of divine blessing, 
one’s connection to the spirit world, or 
just a trick of the hand and mind. Most 
folks didn’t quite understand it as a topic 
to be studied and learned until the arrival 
of Anjal of Thulsadus, an old nagaji wizard. 
Arriving about 15 years ago, Anjal found 
the weather of Willowshore to be 
gentle on their dryscale condition 
and thus bought a plot of land from 
a farmer looking to relocate to the 
city of Sze. Overnight, a Nagajor-
styled tower of dark basalt appeared, much 
to the awe of the villagers.
Though curious about magic, most villagers find 
the topic to be formidable and unapproachable, not 
to mention impractical. Thus, Anjal had only one 
apprentice, Jubei, a child they raised after she was 
abandoned in Willowshore by a pair of irresponsible 
“parents” who posed as well-off merchants but then 
fled town without paying their bills. Infuriated that 
anyone dared endanger a child so, Anjal’s Nalinivatian 
Player’s Guide
20
Luo Xi Yang
Dami

beliefs prompted the old wizard to take the terrified 
Jubei in as their own.
Jubei has since grown into a capable 
young adult. While Anjal’s death last 
year was tragic, Jubei is determined 
to continue studying the arcane arts 
through the books her adopted 
parent left behind.
Wares: arcane and occult scrolls, 
formulas and recipes, wands
W21. The Ceiba-Duyue Exchange
When Governor Heh Shan-Bao 
took office in Willowshore, 
he 
ordered 
several 
new 
warehouses and a trade 
office to be built here, hoping 
to expand the town’s industry 
and connection with the coastal 
fortress of Karahai. On Granny Hu’s advice, 
Shan-Bao handpicked the local Kofusachi priest, 
Kim Gu-won (male human cleric), to take the post of 
Exchange Manager. Gu-won reluctantly accepted the 
job, knowing that with what Granny Hu has on him, 
he wouldn’t be able to refuse.
Wares: beverages, divine scrolls, foods and spices, 
fulus, raw mineral, textiles
W22. Fisheries
Fish is an important food source for Willowshore. 
Locals traditionally capture entire schools of fish, 
preserve those above a certain size, and raise small 
ones in their backyard ponds. Today, this practice has 
been expanded, though the fishers have yet to reach a 
point where the fishery ponds here can be maintained 
indefinitely.
Zataku (female ratfolk fisher) is Willowshore’s 
foremost fish keeper; her ability to sense weather 
changes gives her the perfect edge in her occupation.
Wares: dried or smoked fish and shrimp, fertilizer, 
fishing gear, insect bait
W23. Dock
After the construction of the dam, Willowshore’s old 
dock was blocked off, thus requiring the construction 
of a new dock at the mouth of the Ceiba River. 
The new dock is operated and managed by Rajul 
Samudra (male nagaji shipwright), who was hired 
by the Ceiba‑Duyue Exchange specifically for his 
boatbuilding skills.
Wares: river boat rentals and sales
W24. The Mushroom House
This remote brick farmhouse smells of decay and 
manure. Everyone knows that mushrooms aren’t 
the only things growing in the farmhouse, 
though. For the right price, the Mushroom 
House can grow almost anything. Luda 
Bama (female halfling smuggler), a spry, 
elderly halfling woman, is the head of this 
illicit market, which she runs with the explicit 
permission of Granny Hu.
Wares: adventuring gear, drugs, 
poisons, tattoos
W25. The Cerulean Teahouse
Willowshore’s 
lumber 
bosses 
thought very highly of themselves, 
and the idea of mingling with the 
“common folk” rankled them. Aristocrat 
Qing Mai-Lai’s solution was the establishment of this 
fine structure, close to the lumber lords’ estates.
The Cerulean Teahouse took off quickly, thanks 
to its plentiful offerings of extravagant food, drinks, 
and performances. However, once the novelty wore 
off, business quickly died. Still, Mai-Lai persevered, 
first by changing the teahouse’s focus to banquet 
catering, then by collaborating with The Leshy’s 
Salon as a storefront, and finally as a flexible 
bed‑and-breakfast. Just days after Mai-Lai finally 
paid off the loan on the property, news of Lung 
Wa’s collapse reached Willowshore. Mai-Lai called 
it quits at that point and announced her retirement, 
but her attempts to transfer control of the Teahouse 
to family met with complications after it became 
apparent that none of her relations wanted to move 
to Willowshore. When Mai-Lai passed away early in 
the previous winter, ownership of the business was 
still undetermined, for Mai-Lai never submitted a 
will. Today, the Cerulean Teahouse stands vacant 
and is slowly falling into ruin.
W26. Abandoned Estates
The abandoned lumber lords’ estates, after being 
thoroughly picked clean, were left to serve as the 
occasional rage room or dare challenge. An abandoned 
shrine to Desna sits in one of the houses, and many 
have questioned if someone should accept the goddess 
into their home instead of leaving her bereft in the 
estate ruins.
Player’s Guide
21
Granny Hu

W27. The Leshy’s Saloon
The local leshies don’t recall when they came to the 
region, just that it was long before Willowshore was 
founded. They didn’t officially join Willowshore until 
the expansion of the settlement made it inevitable. With 
allied families keeping the greedy lumber lords away, 
the leshies built their own tea farm business, taking 
to the roads with brewed tea and teaware stashed in 
rectangular bamboo backpacks. Some would shout 
slogans, while others used a simple temple block to 
inform customers of their arrival. These traveling 
merchants soon became an attraction and staple of 
Willowshore life. Ever since the Cerulean Teahouse 
closed, Mountain Summit Grass (agender leshy 
teamaker), the leader of this band of leshies, has been 
increasingly focusing on creating bespoke blends of tea 
for individual local customers they favor.
Wares: clay pottery tea ware, tea leaves
W28. Bones of the Forgotten
Willowshore, like many remote villages, has its own 
set of laws. Grievous crimes were punished with exile 
unless the individual’s skill or knowledge was needed—
the punishment was then permanent imprisonment. 
Executions were rare, as being exiled into Specterwood 
was often a death sentence in itself.
Particularly vile criminals had a Mark of Crime 
tattooed onto their scalp, and after death, this tattoo 
was transferred to the bones through carving, meaning 
even in death and decomposition, the mark remained. 
Bodies with a Mark of Crime—be it from Willowshore, 
another village, or Lung Wa—can only be buried in this 
overgrown and unkept area.
While graves were unmarked in the past, a few 
wooden posts have been erected recently and paper 
shuriken hung off them, seemingly in silent protest 
that the ones buried beneath might have died an unjust 
death. Or perhaps this is an attempt to stave off the rise 
of a bitter, vengeful ghost.
W29. The Great Willow
Willowshore rests at the foot of a mountainous region 
known geographically as the Trimountains, named due 
to the three major peaks in the area. In her memoir, 
Master Zhi Hui noted how she found an ancient 
willow tree of unusual size at the summit of the lowest 
of these mountains. After befriending the kodama kami 
who protected the tree, Master Zhi Hui learned vital 
information that eventually led her to the Tan Sugi 
grove to the west. For this knowledge, the kodama 
of the so-called “Great Willow” has received much 
reverence from both Willowshore and visiting pilgrims 
over the years.
Wares: foraged foods and nonmetallic raw materials
W30. Spider Gate
After the Night of Broken Blades, Willowshore’s 
governor caved to the demand for a new lantern at 
the entrance of the town to augment the protection 
afforded by the Eternal Lantern at the town’s heart. 
While the original plan was for the carpenters of 
Willowshore to build a tori gate or Tian-shu gateway 
on which lanterns could be hung, a Lung Wa aristocrat 
offered a free stone guardian spider from his garden 
since it no longer fit in with the garden’s decorations.
Most Willowshorers thought the giant statue was 
the ugliest thing they’d ever seen. Nevertheless, they 
assumed the statue housed a guardian spirit and 
respected it accordingly. In time, villagers accepted 
their unique entrance guardian, even adopting it as 
their mascot and naming it “Ugly Cute.” The lantern 
Ugly Cute holds in its fangs is a regular lantern, unlike 
the Eternal Lantern found at Dawnstep Bridge, but the 
people of Willowshore value it just as much and strive 
to keep it lit at all times.
WILLOWSHORE HINTERLANDS
Beyond the town’s borders lies the rugged terrain 
of its hinterlands—rolling forested hills rising to 
verdant mountains to the west, while to the east, 
the region’s largest river eventually flows into the 
Sea of Ghosts. Where this river meets the sea stands 
Willowshore’s closest neighbor, the coastal fortified 
market called Karahai, yet even this location is a 
day’s ride from town.
The immediate hinterlands feature a number of 
minor sites of interest. The Duyue River is the largest 
waterway in the region with Willowshore founded 
on one of its tributaries, the Ceiba River. A shallower 
tributary, Dragonfly Creek, winds south to an open 
area of rugged stone known as the Gorge of Fangs 
and Teeth—a natural quarry that supplied the stone 
for Willowshore’s roads and foundations. Gourd 
Lake, downriver from Willowshore, provides excellent 
fishing, but those who would ply its waters would do 
well to make offerings to the kappas who dwell in its 
depths and cavort on its southern shores. Green Silk 
Peak, nearly 2,000 feet high, is the highest point of 
elevation in the hinterlands, while the natural sinkholes 
known as the Eyes of Fumeiyoshi are the opposite—
Player’s Guide
22

barren pits in the ground where nothing grows and 
gritty water has pooled.
Signs of habitation beyond Willowshore are sparse in 
the region, but they do exist and are largely abandoned. 
To the northeast stand the burnt-out ruins of an 
abandoned roadhouse once known as Canary Inn, 
while a remote Hunter’s Hut stands near the headwaters 
of the Duyue River. To the north can be found an old 
expansion once intended to support Willowshore, but 
these buildings and farms were soon abandoned when 
it became apparent the stream that flowed through the 
area tended to dry up at random intervals each year. 
To the west, near the source of the Ceiba River, are the 
remains of the old Lumber Camp abandoned a few 
years ago by the local lumber lords—a location that’s 
slowly being reclaimed by the forest. And in the low 
mountains northwest of town, at the far end of the trail 
known as Pilgrim’s Path, stand the ruins of the Tan 
Sugi Monastery—a place reputed today to be the den 
of monsters, ghosts, or worse.
The forest surrounding Willowshore is part of 
the much larger woodland known as Specterwood, 
although here in Willowshore’s hinterlands, the haunts 
and ghosts notorious for plaguing these woods aren’t 
as dangerous. Wildlife is abundant with deer and boars 
making up the primary large game in the region, and 
more dangerous predators like black bears, wolves, 
giant stag beetles, and enormous spiders comprise the 
greater perils of the hinterlands to those who travel too 
far from the roads or explore the wilds after dark.
BEYOND THE HINTERLANDS
Season of Ghosts takes place almost entirely within the 
town of Willowshore and its immediate hinterlands, as 
presented on the map (page 16), but there’s a whole 
world out there beyond the borders of the map! 
When events might send you beyond the Willowshore 
hinterlands, your GM will have the information you 
need, but it’s easiest to focus on Willowshore and its 
hinterlands when seeking inspiration to create your 
character.
Brief notes about what lies beyond the hinterlands 
down the six roads and trails that lead off the map are 
summarized below.
Central Northern Road: This partially ruined road 
winds through several fields that have gone fallow 
amid the ruins of a village that was abandoned many 
years ago, then eventually comes to an end at a large 
Player’s Guide
23
Ceiba River
Ceiba River
Duyue River
Duyue River
Duyue River
Duyue River
Dragonfly Creek
Dragonfly Creek
Gourd Lake
Gourd Lake
WILLOWSHORE
WILLOWSHORE
• Trail
• Trail
• Seasonal Creek
• Seasonal Creek
WILLOWSHORE HINTERLANDS
WILLOWSHORE HINTERLANDS
1 HEX = 2 MILES
1 HEX = 2 MILES
Sugi River
Sugi River
Pilgrims Path
Pilgrims Path
A
North Sugi River
North Sugi River
West Sugi River
West Sugi River
Mirror 
Mirror 
Lake
Lake
TO KARAHAI
TO KARAHAI
Left Eye of 
Left Eye of 
Fumeiyoshi
Fumeiyoshi
Tan Sugi 
Tan Sugi 
Monastery
Monastery
Old Village 
Old Village 
Expansion
Expansion
Hunter's 
Hunter's 
Hut
Hut
Canary Inn
Canary Inn
Gree Silk 
Gree Silk 
Peak
Peak
Right Eye of 
Right Eye of 
Fumeiyoshi
Fumeiyoshi
Lumber 
Lumber 
Camp
Camp
Gorge of Fangs 
Gorge of Fangs 
and Teeth
and Teeth

wetland known as Moon Marsh for the way the 
orange, night‑blooming flowers that grow there shine 
under the moonlight.
Eastern Northern Road: This road connects 
Willowshore with numerous small but distant villages 
and towns scattered throughout Specterwood and 
eventually finds its way to the Gossamer Mountains. 
The next closest settlement down this road is 
Foxhollow, but it’s three days’ travel and even smaller 
than Willowshore.
Eastern Road: This road leads to the trade fortress of 
Karahai and represents Willowshore’s major economic 
link to the rest of Shenmen. Karahai has a small village 
(quite a bit smaller than Willowshore) nearby—the 
trade fortress itself being one of many economic hubs 
along the west coast of the Sea of Ghosts.
Northeastern Road: This road leads to a recently 
established farmstead on a bluff overlooking the Sea of 
Ghosts, a cattle ranch owned by a notoriously ruthless 
expatriate politician from the city of Sze who doesn’t 
have much to do with Willowshore.
Northwest Trail: This old overgrown trail leads 
off into the forest; most folks believe it leads to a 
long‑abandoned shrine, but few travel this remote 
path today.
Southern Road: The southern road is a long 
overland route that eventually connects to better 
maintained roads and more populous villages and 
towns several days’ travel to the south, but most in 
Willowshore call it the “Apple Road,” as it leads to 
a grove of wild apple trees that produce particularly 
delicious fruit every fall.
Player’s Guide
24

OPEN GAME LICENSE VERSION 1.0A
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. (“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved.
1. Definitions: (a) “Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners who 
have contributed Open Game Content; (b) “Derivative Material” means copyrighted 
material including derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), 
potation, 
modification, 
correction, 
addition, 
extension, 
upgrade, 
improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, 
lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d) “Open Game 
Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes 
and routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and 
is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as 
Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, 
including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically 
excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product line names, 
logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts, creatures, characters, 
stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, 
symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, 
photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of 
characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special 
abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural 
abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product 
Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” 
means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to 
identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game 
License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, 
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game 
Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice 
indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this 
License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No 
terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the 
License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License.
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your 
acceptance of the terms of this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the 
Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with 
the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material 
as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation 
and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of 
this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game 
Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the 
copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any 
original Open Game Content you distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as 
an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent 
Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to 
indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark 
in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed 
in another, independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a 
challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity 
used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that 
Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which 
portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated 
versions of this License. You may use any authorized version of this License to copy, 
modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version 
of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of 
the Open Game Content You distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game 
Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from 
the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms 
of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, 
judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game 
Material so affected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with 
all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the 
breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such 
provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
System Reference Document © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors: 
Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, and Skip Williams, based on material by E. Gary Gygax 
and Dave Arneson.
Pathfinder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Logan Bonner, 
Jason Bulmahn, Stephen Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter.
Pathfinder Season of Ghosts Player’s Guide © 2023, Paizo Inc.; Authors: James Jacobs 
and Sen H.H.S.
PAIZO INC.
Creative Directors • James Jacobs and Luis Loza
Director of Game Design • Jason Bulmahn
Director of Visual Design • Sonja Morris
Director of Game Development • Adam Daigle
Development Manager • Linda Zayas-Palmer
Managing Creative Director (Starfinder) • Thurston Hillman
Senior Developers • John Compton, Eleanor Ferron, Jenny Jarzabski, and Jason Keeley
Developers • Vanessa Hoskins, Dustin Knight, and Landon Winkler
Lead Designer (Games) • Joe Pasini
Organized Play Line Developers • Jessica Catalan, Josh Foster, and Shay Snow
Design Manager • Michael Sayre
Pathfinder Lead Designer • Logan Bonner
Senior Designer • James Case 
Designer • Joshua Birdsong
Managing Editor • Patrick Hurley
Lead Editor • Avi Kool
Senior Editors • Ianara Natividad and Simone D. Sallé
Editors • Felix Dritz, Priscilla Lagares, Lynne M. Meyer, Zac Moran, and Solomon St. John
Concept Art Director • Kent Hamilton
Art Directors • Kyle Hunter and Adam Vick 
Senior Graphic Designer • Emily Crowell
Graphic Designer • Adriana Gasperi
Production Designer • Danika Wirch
Director of Brand Strategy • Mark Moreland
Paizo CEO • Lisa Stevens
President • Jim Butler
Chief Creative Officer • Erik Mona
Vice President of People & Culture • Maggie Gallagher
Vice President of Sales & Operations • Mike Webb
Vice President of Technology • Rei Ko
Controller • William Jorenby
Bookkeeper • Emma Swan
Director of Sales • Cosmo Eisele
Sales & E-Commerce Assistant • Mika Hawkins
Director of Licensing • John Feil 
Director of Marketing • Aaron Shanks
Marketing and Licensing Coordinator • Raychael Allor
Marketing and Media Specialist • Rue Dickey
Community and Social Media Specialist • Jonathan Morgantini
Organized Play Coordinator • Alex Speidel 
Director of Project Management • Glenn Elliott 
Project Manager • Lee Aula
Finance Operations Specialist • B. Scott Keim 
Front End Engineering Lead • Andrew White
Senior Software Developer • Gary Teter
Software Architect • Brian Bauman
Software Developer • Robert Brandenburg
Software Test Engineer • Erik Keith
System Administrators II • Whitney Chatterjee and Josh Thornton
Web Content Manager • Maryssa Mari
Webstore Coordinator • Katina Davis
Customer Service Lead • Austin Phillips
Customer Service Representatives • Kait Chase, James Oakes, and Jackson Wood
Warehouse Manager • Jeff Strand
Logistics Coordinator • Kevin Underwood
Warehouse Distribution Lead • Heather Payne
Warehouse Team • Alexander Crain, Summer Foerch, James Mafi, Evan Panek,  
and Jesus Reynoso Ortiz
This product is compliant with the Open Game License (OGL) and is suitable for use with 
the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game (Second Edition).
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined 
in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Game Content: All 
trademarks, registered trademarks, proper nouns (characters, deities, locations, etc., as 
well as all adjectives, names, titles, and descriptive terms derived from proper nouns), 
artworks, characters, dialogue, locations, organizations, plots, storylines, and trade dress. 
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content, or are exclusively 
derived from previous Open Game Content, or that are in the public domain are not 
included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: Except for material designated as Product Identity, the game 
mechanics of this Paizo game product are Open Game Content, as defined in the Open 
Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(d). No portion of this work other than the material 
designated as Open Game Content may be reproduced in any form without written 
permission.
Pathfinder Season of Ghosts Player’s Guide © 2023, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem, 
Pathfinder, Starfinder, and other trademarks owned by Paizo are property of Paizo Inc. All 
rights reserved.
Player’s Guide
25

