
===== Page 1 =====
Second Edition
By Sen H.H.S., Jason Keeley, and Jacob W. Michaels

===== Page 2 =====
By Sen H.H.S., Jason Keeley, and Jacob W. Michaels

===== Page 3 =====
Paizo Inc.
15902 Woodinville-Redmond RD NE
Unit B
Woodinville, WA 98072
paizo.com
Campaign Overview	
4
by Michelle Y. Kim
Chapter 1: Against Hell	
10
by Jason Keeley
Chapter 2: For the Cause	
28
by Jason Keeley
Chapter 3: Devils of Chitterwood	
46
by Jason Keeley
Chapter 4: Into the Jaws	
64
by Jacob W. Michaels
Chapter 5: Dead Man’s Party	
82
by Jacob W. Michaels
Chapter 6: One Way Out	
98
by Jacob W. Michaels
Chapter 7: Wight Queen’s Thaw	
116
by Sen H.H.S.
Chapter 8: Springing Sarini Manor	
136
by Sen H.H.S.
Chapter 9: The Battle for Saringallow	
152
by Sen H.H.S.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
AUTHORS
Sen H.H.S., Jason Keeley, and Jacob W. Michaels
ADDITIONAL WRITING
Eren Ahn, Joseph Blomquist, Matthew Fu, 
Michelle Y. Kim, Lynne M. Meyer, Kienna Shaw, 
and Tan Shao Han
DEVELOPER
Michelle Y. Kim
EDITING LEAD
Simone D. Sallé
EDITORS
Felix Dritz, Patrick Hurley, Avi Kool, Priscilla N. 
Lagares, Lynne M. Meyer, Zac Moran, Ianara 
Natividad, Solomon St. John, and Simone D. Sallé
COVER ARTIST
Rodrigo Gonzalez Toledo
INTERIOR ARTISTS
Nicholas DeLuca, Wilmar Ballespí Escarp, Kendal 
Gates, Rodrigo Gonzalez Toledo, Robert Lazzaretti, 
Vira Linevych, Giovana Marion, Justine Nortjé, 
Max Roche, Riccardo Rullo, and Firat Solhan
ART DIRECTION
Sonja Morris
GRAPHIC DESIGN
Adriana Gasperi
DIRECTOR OF NARRATIVE
Adam Daigle
NARRATIVE MANAGER
Ron Lundeen
ASSOCIATE PUBLISHER
Thurston Hillman
PUBLISHER
Erik Mona

===== Page 4 =====
Continuing the Campaign	
168
by Michelle Y. Kim
Isger Gazetteer	
172
by Jason Keeley
Chitterwood	
180
by Lynne M. Meyer
Elidir Gazetteer	
188
by Jacob W. Michaels
Plots of the Pallid Princess	
196
by Kienna Shaw
Saringallow Gazetteer	
200
by Sen H.H.S.
Adventure Toolbox	
208
by Eren Ahn, Joseph Blomquist, Matthew Fu, Lynne M. Meyer, and Tan Shao Han
Hellbreaker Archetype	
216
Hellbreaker Troops	
218
Creatures	
222 
NPCs	
236 
Calendar	
248
Content Warning
This adventure contains themes of war, oppression, torture, and political violence. Before you begin, understand that player consent (including that 
of the Game Master) is vital to a safe and fun play experience for everyone. You should talk with your players before beginning the adventure and 
modify descriptions of the narrative as appropriate.

===== Page 5 =====
4

===== Page 6 =====
Campaign Background
Isger has been neglected by Cheliax and its own 
government for decades. A group of idealists and 
former soldiers, sick of the people bearing the brunt 
of the authorities’ poor decisions, founded the 
Hellbreakers League to gather like-minded rebels 
in hopes of sparking a revolution. They made little 
traction until the Godsrain, when they managed 
to locate and obtain a warshard in the town of 
Breachill.
However, Isger’s steward, Hedvend VI, was alerted 
to their activity and reported it to Abrogail Thrune. 
Queen Abrogail II, coveting the warshard and seeking 
to stamp out rebellion, sent the Order of the Rack to 
seize Breachill and scour it for her prizes.
The town withered under the subsequent public 
executions and the Hellknights’ harsh rule. Breachill’s 
cries for deliverance made it to the nation of Andoran, 
who sent a contingent of diplomats, including the 
retired general Reginald Cormoth, to entreat the 
Hellknights to stop subjugating Breachill’s citizens. 
The Hellknights responded by executing Reginald.
Outraged by the brutal and unnecessary act of 
violence, Eagle Knights of the Steel Falcons went to 
Isger and initiated the Battle of Hellknight Hill, a 
grueling fight that ended in the Eagle Knights’ victory. 
The Hellbreakers aided the Eagle Knights, and after 
the battle, they were promised aid from Andoran in 
exchange for their warshard.
A survivor of the battle, the armiger Viro Ahala, 
managed to acquire full Hellknight plate before 
fleeing the battlefield. He sought aid from the Sisters 
of the Golden Erinys, who mistook him for a full-
fledged Hellknight. Viro used the nuns’ resources to 
learn of a ritual to summon a powerful devil to exact 
revenge upon the Hellbreakers League.
Meanwhile, in the capital of Elidir, an agent 
of Illcayna Alonnor prepares to throw Isger’s 
government into chaos and arrange things so Illcayna 
can easily take over the nation. Ezio Gaeta plans 
to assassinate Hedvend at the steward’s own gala, 
distracting the authorities while Illcayna prepares to 
enact a powerful ritual to transform all of Isger into 
her undead thralls.
Ignorant to those who plot against them, the 
Hellbreakers League is reconvening in Saringallow 
to take advantage of the momentum from their 
recent victory.
About the PCs
The 1st-level PCs are low-ranking members of 
the Hellbreakers League. People of all types and 
backgrounds join the Hellbreakers League, including 
outsiders like an Eagle Knight with a bleeding heart 
or a Drumish mercenary promised a reward for 
participation. This Adventure Path caters to a wide 
range of gameplay styles with social, wilderness, and 
combat challenges.
Make sure your players read the free Player’s 
Guide to prepare for the adventure and make PCs 
appropriate for the story. Don’t forget that there’s a 
new archetype they can take at Level 2, and there’s 
also a new animal companion available on page 215.
Subsystems
This campaign makes use of several subsystems. The 
first is a reputation system that’s used throughout the 
entire campaign. In Chapter 6, several subsystems 
are used: the Victory Point system, the infiltration 
system, and the chase subsystem. Chapter 9 uses the 
research subsystem. 
Terms to Know
Cheliax: Cheliax is the patron nation of Isger and 
worships the archdevil Asmodeus.
The Goblinblood Wars: In this war, hobgoblins 
from the Chitterwood raised armies of goblins 
and set about destroying settlements nearby. Isger 
suffered greatly during this time, and the war’s effects 
still haunt its populace.
Hellbreakers League: A rebel organization dedicated 
to freeing Isger from Cheliax’s oppressive rule.
Hellknight: Hellknights are Chelaxian knights 
dedicated to law and order above all else. There 
are several different orders of Hellknights; the most 
relevant to this adventure is the Order of the Godclaw, 
which is known to worship the Godclaw pantheon. 
There are mentions of the Order of the Rack early on.
Warshard: When the god Gorum died, several 
parts of his body and weapons were strewn about the 
Universe in pieces called warshards. These items hold 
immense divine power.
Campaign Overview
5
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 7 =====
Names to Know
Abrogail Thrune: Abrogail II is the ruler of Cheliax. 
She doesn’t make an appearance in this adventure, but 
her influence is felt everywhere Cheliax has a hold.
Alceo Demetrias: Cofounder of the Hellbreakers 
League, Alceo is a cleric of the goddess Milani.
Hedvend VI: Hedvend is the steward of Isger. He’s 
known to consistently prioritize Cheliax’s wants over 
Isger’s needs.
Illcayna Alonnor: Illcayna is a worshipper of the 
goddess Urgathoa, and her sole purpose is to turn Isger 
into a tribute nation to her goddess. She’s in possession 
of a warshard, which she plans to use to achieve her 
goals.
Kaltessa Iyis: Kaltessa is the mysterious, centuries-
old high priestess of the archdevil Mammon. She only 
makes a cameo in this adventure, but you might be 
seeing her again!
Phoebe Demetrias: Cofounder of the Hellbreakers 
League, Phoebe is an ex-soldier now commander of 
the rebels.
Important Locations
Chitterwood: A large forest that was mostly burned 
down during the Goblinblood Wars. It’s mostly 
occupied by goblinoids.
Elidir: The nation’s capital, home of the wealthy 
elites and Cheliax’s main supporters.
Finder’s Gulch: This town is the headquarters of 
Illcayna Alonnor and overrun with undead.
Saringallow: This small city is the base for the 
Hellbreakers League headquarters.
Relations
Isger is mostly forgotten by Cheliax, mainly retaining 
any significance due to the river running through it 
that brings lucrative shipments and trade. Cheliax 
sent limited aid during the Goblinblood Wars but 
mostly let the nation fend for itself. Once the wars 
were over, they sent nuns to perform acts of charity 
and indoctrinate civilians, for which many citizens are 
grateful. The opinions on Chelaxian rule are split, with 
more ire toward the patron nation in the countryside.
Timeline
The following events precede and contribute to this 
campaign.
Date	
Event
2133 ar	
Isger is founded as a province of 
Taldor when Taldor’s Seventh Army 
of Exploration defeats the indigenous 
Isgeri.
6
ISGER
O
250
250
MILES
MILES
ISGER
ISGER
CHELIAX
CHELIAX
ANDORAN
ANDORAN
DRUMA
DRUMA

===== Page 8 =====
4081 ar	
Cheliax declares independence from 
Taldor in the Even-Tongued Conquest. 
Isger is annexed in the process, 
becoming a Chelaxian vassal state.
4601 ar	
Illcayna Alonnor, a young priestess of 
Urgathoa, feeds herself to a group of 
wights and is resurrected into a daughter 
of Urgathoa. She slaughters the villagers 
of Finder’s Gulch and transforms them 
into her undead thralls.
4638 ar	
The Hellknight Order of the Nail 
is founded and constructs Citadel 
Altaerein in Isger, near the town of 
Breachill.
4697–4701 ar	 Hundreds of goblinoids from the 
Chitterwood of southern Isger launch 
attacks throughout the nation, starting 
the Goblinblood Wars. The government 
is slow to react to the brutal conflict 
in rural Isger, fomenting resentment 
in civilians in the hinterlands. The war 
ends through the combined efforts of 
Hellknights from Cheliax, Eagle Knights 
from Andoran, and a contingent of 
Druma’s Mercenary League. 
4701 ar	
The devastation to Isger’s army from 
the Goblinblood Wars is so immense 
that Isger’s leader, Hedvend VI, 
commands his forces to focus on vital 
trade routes and leave the countryside 
to fend for itself. House Thrune sends 
assistance for war orphans through 
the church of Asmodeus while Illcayna 
takes advantage of the massive 
casualties to raise more undead.
4702 ar	
Illcayna Alonnor curses a traveling 
merchant, who unknowingly plants the 
curse in Gillamoor when he dies and is 
buried there. All villagers soon perish 
and are transformed into ravenous 
undead. The site is cursed so that any 
who die there become Illcayna’s undead 
thralls.
4711 ar	
Citadel Altaerein is fully abandoned.
4717 ar	
Bumblebrasher goblins move into 
Citadel Altaerein.
4719 ar	
Heroes clear Citadel Altaerein of various 
threats, taking the castle as their base 
of operations as they work to prevent a 
new Age of Ashes. Once their quest is 
successfully completed, they bequeath 
the citadel to the citizens of Breachill.
Arodus 4724	
Gorum dies and the Godsrain pours 
over Golarion, starting a warshard 
arms race. The Hellbreakers League, 
Illcayna Alonnor, and Lady Kaltessa 
Iyis all collect warshards for their own 
purposes.
Neth 4724	
The Isgeri government suspects that 
the Hellbreakers League is hiding 
warshards within Breachill or the 
nearby Citadel Altaerein.
Abadius 4725	
At the request of Steward Hedvend VI, 
Her Majestrix Abrogail Thrune II 
sends loyalist members of the Order 
of the Rack to root out treason within 
Breachill and reclaim any warshards 
they discover.
Gozran 4725	
Order of the Rack Hellknights occupy 
Breachill, placing most citizens 
under house arrest. Members of the 
Hellbreakers League aren’t found 
within the population despite several 
public executions.
Desnus 4725	
Supplies from Cheliax allow Order 
of the Rack Hellknights to fortify 
within Citadel Altaerein and sanctify 
its buildings with infernal wards, 
conjuring a diabolical dragon.
Sarenith 4725	
A team of Andoren diplomats, headed 
by the semiretired General Reginald 
Cormoth, travels to Breachill to request 
that the Hellknights cease subjugating 
the town’s populace. Incensed, the 
Hellknights capture and publicly 
execute General Cormoth; his retinue 
flees the area.
Erastus 4725	
With a huge public outcry over General 
Cormoth’s death, an emergency 
People’s Council is held in Almas to 
discuss the Breachill matter. After days 
of discussion, Eagle Knights of the 
Steel Falcons travel to Isger.
Arodus 4725	
The Battle of Hellknight Hill: After 
many grueling exchanges, the Eagle 
Knights retake Breachill and Citadel 
Altaerein. Some Order of the Rack 
Hellknights are taken prisoner, but 
many others retreat toward Cheliax. 
The Hellbreakers League emerges 
from their nearby mountain caves to 
treat with the Andoren forces. Aid 
is promised in return for a powerful 
warshard, which is taken back to 
Andoran.
Rova 4725	
The current month and year.
7
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 9 =====
8

===== Page 10 =====
Campaign Summary
In the aftermath of the Battle of Hellknight Hill, the 
PCs travel from Breachill to Saringallow to meet with 
their superiors in the Hellbreakers League. They partake 
in several missions, learning that there’s a “Hellknight” 
seeking revenge on the League. The PCs are sent on a 
countryside mission to win over the people by aiding them 
where the government has neglected to. As they travel, 
the PCs discover evidence of “Hellknight” Viro Ahala’s 
plot against Isger—starting with the Chitterwood. Now 
knowing Viro’s plans, the PCs journey to the Chitterwood 
to entreat the goblin residents for help in stopping the 
rogue Hellknight armiger.
While the PCs dealt with things in the countryside, 
the leaders of the Hellbreakers were making plans in 
the capital. In need of backup after their identities 
are exposed, the leaders summon the PCs to take 
their place as falsified guests of Hedvend VI’s devilish 
costume gala. At the gala, the PCs meet several 
important figures, including Hellknight paralictor 
Caeto Vulaunex, who’s slated to be the head of a new 
task force to hunt down Hellbreakers. However, the 
festivities are interrupted when fake Hellbreakers 
attack the gala. The PCs deal with their impersonators 
but soon learn that someone murdered Hedvend—and 
the Hellbreakers are being blamed! Caeto asks the PCs 
to investigate as other mysterious deaths continue to 
occur. The real murderer is fellow guest Ezio Gaeta, 
a vampire and follower of Illcayna Alonnor, who has 
grand plans to transform Isger into an undead tribute 
state for Urgathoa.
Caeto takes control of Elidir, declaring martial law 
over the nation and blaming the Hellbreakers for 
Hedvend’s death. The PCs bolster a new local chapter 
of the Hellbreakers while planning to escape the city, 
but things go awry when members of the new chapter 
are captured. The PCs must rescue their new friends 
and make a daring escape from Elidir!
The PCs return to Saringallow only to learn that 
Illcayna Alonnor’s undead forces are on the move, and 
Caeto is refusing to address the issue. With no one 
else to help the citizens of Isger, the PCs return to the 
countryside to seek a solution to the undead problem. 
When they reach Gillamoor, the PCs learn that the 
town was once cursed by Illcayna so that any who died 
within the town’s grounds would rise as her undead 
thralls—and she plans to ritually cast a much more 
powerful version of the curse on the entire nation. The 
PCs must head to the town of Finder’s Gulch to defeat 
the Wight Mother once and for all.
The Hellbreakers League is more popular than 
ever after defeating Illcayna, but their increased 
profile allows Caeto to discern the location of their 
headquarters in Saringallow. The PCs barely escape 
capture and must first take the infamous Sarini Manor 
as a stronghold before planning the liberation of their 
fellow Hellbreakers.
The time has come to face Caeto himself. The PCs 
siege Saringallow with their gathered forces and allies, 
striking back to liberate their friends, reclaim their 
home, and secure their freedom at last.
ADVANCEMENT TRACK
Hellbreakers is designed for four characters.
1	
The PCs begin this adventure at 1st level.
2	
The PCs should be 2nd level after rescuing 
Rhokrag and defeating the Chelaxian loyalists.
3	
The PCs should be 3rd level after defeating the 
Sisters of the Erinys.
4	
The PCs should be 4th level after stopping Viro 
Ahala’s ritual and saving Isger.
5	
The PCs should be 5th level after infiltrating 
Hedvend’s gala.
6	
The PCs should be 6th level for solving Hedvend’s 
murder and stopping Ezio.
7	
The PCs should be 7th level for escaping Elidir.
8	
The PCs should be 8th level for defeating Illcayna 
and her undead hordes.
9	
The PCs should be 9th level for taking back 
Sarini Manor.
The PCs should reach 10th level by the end of the 
adventure.
9
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 11 =====
When Hellknights of the Rack publicly executed 
retired Andoren general Reginald Cormoth in the 
town of Breachill for the alleged crime of “providing 
succor to dissidents against the crown of Cheliax,” they 
set alight a metaphorical powder keg that exploded 
into war with the Battle of Hellknight Hill. With the 
approach of Eagle Knight forces from Andoran into 
Isger, the Hellknights retreated into a newly fortified 
Citadel Altaerein. The ensuing siege was joined by 
rebels of the Hellbreakers League, a group of Isgeri 
citizens looking to remove the boot of Cheliax from 
their country’s neck.
While most other sieges are long, drawn-out affairs, 
the fighting at the Battle of Hellknight Hill was short 
and brutal. Many Hellknights, eager for conflict, 
ranged out of the citadel and clashed with anti-
Cheliax forces in and around Breachill. At one point, 
the diabolic dragon Kierothax perched atop Citadel 
Altaerein on behalf of the Hellknights and rained 
hellfire down upon the gathered armies.
Though both armies experienced heavy casualties, 
the forces of freedom and liberty eventually triumphed. 
They slew the dragon and routed the Hellknights, with 
the surviving Chelaxian forces fleeing southwest back 
toward Cheliax. The Eagle Knights, Hellbreakers, and 
their allies were too weary to give chase, and instead 
began the process of burying the fields of the dead, 
tending to the living wounded, and repairing damage 
to Breachill’s buildings.
Getting Started
The PCs are agents of the Hellbreakers League 
gathering in Breachill to meet a wounded Eagle Knight 
who wishes to aid the cause. Each character should 
Chapter 1:
Against Hell
10

===== Page 12 =====
have their own reason for joining the League—perhaps 
they’re an Isgeri citizen fed up with Chelaxian rule or 
maybe they’re a mercenary who fought for the League 
in the Battle of Hellknight Hill. Each player should 
choose a background from the Hellbreakers Player’s 
Guide that ties their character to the organization. In 
any case, they have all agreed to aid this Eagle Knight 
contact, an accomplished soldier named Ethran 
Howell, in returning to the Hellbreakers headquarters 
in Saringallow.
Whether the party has met one another already (and 
possibly fought together) is up to your group, but they 
all arrive at Cayden’s Keg in Breachill on a crisp fall 
evening in Lamashan 4726 ar. As they head to this 
combination temple and alehouse, the overall mood in 
the town is celebratory.
The Aftermath of Battle
The people of Breachill, with the aid of the Eagle 
Knights and the Hellbreakers League, won a major 
victory by driving out the occupying Hellknights. 
After weeks of surviving under the iron fists of their 
oppressors, most residents are relieved to not have 
to watch their every move and word. However, as 
some Hellbreaker rebels are quick to point out: how 
free could they possibly be when their country is 
still a vassal state to Cheliax? But that’s a problem 
for another day, as the streets of Breachill fill with 
celebrants, cheering and singing even as they rebuild 
ruined homes or honor their fallen neighbors.
Nowhere are spirits as high as they are at Cayden’s 
Keg, a tavern and temple to the drunken god Cayden 
Cailean. The primary bartender and priestess Brynne 
Taithe (jovial female human cleric of Cayden Cailean 
5) has offered her healing services for free to many 
of the wounded, as well as room and board if they 
require it. Many comrades-in-arms and various local 
well-wishers congregate alongside the PCs, keeping 
the ale flowing since the battle’s end. The alehouse is 
packed with people chattering and drinking, while a 
single musician plays rousing fiddle tunes from one 
corner. A small fire crackles in the tavern’s fireplace, 
though its heat is hardly necessary to keep out the 
autumnal weather—the press of bodies does that 
particular work.
MEETING ETHRAN HOWELL
Several tavern patrons raise their mugs and loudly 
greet the PCs as they enter Cayden’s Keg. The PCs can 
ask about their contact or cast their eyes across the 
crowd; either way, they find Ethran Howell (pragmatic 
nonbinary human soldier 4) at a crowded table. The 
soldier’s left arm was gravely wounded late in the 
Battle of Hellknight Hell, leaving no choice but for 
it to be amputated, and they’ve been recuperating at 
Cayden’s Keg since then. During that time, Ethran 
decided to focus on the important work of helping to 
liberate Isger by offering their services as a soldier and 
tactician to the Hellbreakers League; the Eagle Knights 
have unofficially approved of Ethran’s decision, 
noting in the records that the veteran is on “semi-
permanent convalescence leave.” Read or paraphrase 
the following when the PCs approach Ethran.
Ethran Howell is difficult to miss in their distinctive blue, 
black, and golden breastplate decorated with a single 
golden eagle epaulet. Several townspeople crowd their 
table thanking them for their service, commiserating 
about their left arm, and buying them drinks. Ethran looks 
flattered but slightly embarrassed by the attention as they 
say to their admirers, “Fellows, I appreciate the chat and 
the drinks, but I must attend to business.” The small crowd 
disperses with a final cheer for Ethran, leaving plenty of 
space at the soldier’s table. Ethran smiles, looking a little 
relieved. “Everyone’s in high spirits, as they’re right to be. 
Would you like a drink?”
Ethran is politically aware and can explain any 
factors leading up to the Battle of Hellknight Hill 
that the players aren’t yet familiar with. If asked, they 
describe the fight with a pair of Hellknights that left 
them wounded. If any PCs also participated in the 
battle, Ethran acknowledges their contribution to the 
victory with a brief toast. Before the group can begin 
to discuss the upcoming journey, Brynne rings a bell 
mounted behind the bar to get the patrons’ attention.
The crowd hushes and the fiddler stops mid-tune as the 
clear tones of the bell ring out. Brynne leans over the bar 
counter and calls out, “Come now, friends! In the name 
of all things fun and good as our beloved Cayden Cailean 
would have it, it’s time for tonight’s contest!” Cheers erupt 
as locals excitedly whisper, wondering what the theme of 
A LONG HISTORY
Breachill was the setting of the first few books 
in the Age of Ashes Adventure Path, and several 
of the locations and NPCs from that campaign 
are featured in the beginning of this chapter. To 
learn more about Breachill and its residents, you 
can read the “Breachill, Outpost of Secrets” article 
on page 62 of Pathfinder Adventure Path #145: 
Hellknight Hill.
11
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 13 =====
tonight’s storytelling will be. Brynne raises a frothy glass. 
“In honor of those who drove out the scum from our town, 
the theme of the evening is past battles! Tell us your 
stories, brave warriors and wily hunters, and let’s 
see who tells them best!”
NIGHT OF TALES
The head priestess of Cayden’s Keg 
regularly holds evening storytelling contests 
to both boost the mood of her customers 
and as a way to keep the alcohol flowing. 
After all, everyone loves to hear a 
good story and people usually 
stick around to hear a bunch of 
them told in succession—ordering more 
drinks in the meantime. Ethran encourages 
the PCs to participate but doesn’t pressure any of 
the characters, especially if it seems like a character’s 
history might be a sore subject. This is a good way for 
players to introduce their characters more thoroughly, 
giving a little backstory (or creating a clever fiction) to 
bring the group closer together.
As the PCs decide whether they wish to participate, 
other customers begin to tell their tales. Each one 
steps to the center of the tavern floor to speak, with 
all eyes watching and all ears listening. Most relate 
a brief story about their participation in the Battle of 
Hellknight Hill, while others spin yarns about a heroic 
hunt or a personal battle with temptation. A PC can 
enter the contest by speaking up from the center of the 
room at any point.
Each character who wants to tell a tale should 
attempt a DC 15 skill check; Performance is the 
default skill, but a character could use Deception if 
they are confabulating or Intimidation if they are 
trying to scare the audience. If the player wants to 
tell a story that directly relates to their character’s 
background, they could attempt a check using the 
Lore skill provided by that background. Other skills 
are applicable at the GM’s discretion.
On a failure, the crowd gives the character some light 
applause, but it’s clear that they’re unimpressed. On 
a success, the tavern gives a livelier response, hooting 
with delight or even openly weeping if the tale was a 
sad one. Record the result of each skill check result 
that meets or exceeds the DC. At the end of the night, 
Brynne declares the character whose story represents 
the highest of those results the winner. The assembled 
drinkers cheer loud enough to nearly bring down the 
roof as Brynne presents the winner with several mugs of 
the Keg’s finest (and most expensive) ale. Ethran bangs 
their own mug on the table in appreciation as well.
After another hour of carousing, Ethran declares 
that they’re tired and tells the PCs they’ll meet up 
again in the morning to discuss the details of the 
journey to Saringallow. Though Cayden’s Keg 
isn’t renting out rooms (they’re saved for 
those convalescing), Brynne tells the PCs they 
can find lodging at the Great Dreamhouse, a 
temple to Desna, or Wizard’s Grace, a local 
inn. They can also camp outside, near much 
of the visiting military.
Reward: If at least one PC succeeds at the 
storytelling check, award the PCs 30 XP; if 
more than half the PCs succeed, award them an 
additional 10 XP. In addition, if more than 
half the PCs succeed, Brynne thanks them 
for entertaining the tavern and gives them 
two minor healing potions before they leave, 
noting that Cayden told her they might need them “on 
the road ahead.”
NEWS FROM ELIDIR
The next morning, Breachill is abuzz with talk of news 
out of Elidir that arrived around dawn. Apparently, 
the Isgeri government placed a sizable bounty on 
“dissenters and revolutionaries” in a manner that is 
frustratingly vague. It’s obvious to anyone who reads 
the text of the decree posted outside Breachill’s town 
hall that Steward Hedvend VI (sniveling male human 
aristocrat 9) is trying to squash any anti-Chelaxian 
activities by encouraging private citizens to take 
matters into their own hands. A PC who succeeds at 
a DC 16 Society check or DC 14 Legal Lore check 
realizes that people can use this bounty to settle 
grudges with their neighbors—similar in fashion as to 
what happens during a witch hunt—while collecting 
a bit of coin.
As the PCs return to Cayden’s Keg to meet Ethran, 
they can see how this news has cast a pall over the 
town, somewhat eclipsing the celebratory mood of the 
previous evening. People in the street mutter to each 
other about how nearby towns might treat them after 
the results of the Battle of Hellknight Hill. A small 
crowd has gathered in Monument Circle near town 
hall to protest the decree and publicly decrying the 
idea of Breachill citizens turning on one another. The 
PCs should feel safe here for now.
Should they express any doubts about their safety, 
Ethran assures the PCs that no one here is likely to 
turn them in. They do note that it’ll be a different 
matter outside of Breachill. Their original plan was 
to travel south to the Conerica River and then west 
to Saringallow, but now they think it’s best to head 
directly to the Hellbreakers League headquarters, 
12
Ethran Howell

===== Page 14 =====
traveling southwest overland. Ethran also suggests they 
move as incognito as possible; they, for one, intend to 
hide their Eagle Knight regalia in a trunk. If any PCs 
sport obvious allegiances to the Hellbreakers League 
(or other revolutionary groups), Ethran recommends 
removing those symbols.
Setting out for Saringallow
Ethran has purchased a horse and a wagon for the 
journey. They wish to leave within the hour, giving 
the PCs an opportunity to purchase any supplies 
for the trip as they see fit. They’ll be on the road 
for about half a week, but Ethran says that they’ll 
probably have opportunities to buy more rations and 
other items on the way.
The Eagle Knight drives the wagon out of Breachill. 
The PCs can take seats in the wagon with Ethran’s 
trunk or ride or walk alongside. When the group 
sets out, the sky is gray and cloudy, presaging some 
autumnal rains. The road out of town leads west, then 
eventually turns a bit southwest, passing by farms with 
empty fields, their harvests already collected. Ethran 
makes small talk over the rumbling of the cart’s 
wheels, perhaps asking the PCs about any stories they 
told the night before, inquiring into their veracity or 
asking for more details. At the end of the first day, the 
group comes to a roadside inn where the PCs can spot 
a copy of Hedvend’s decree on a signboard outside. 
The few patrons inside mutter a bit about the country 
not being safe anymore to anyone who asks, but it 
isn’t clear whether they mean safe from Chelaxian 
intervention or from rebel activity.
During the next two days of travel, the PCs spot 
more copies of Hedvend’s decree nailed to trees and 
fence posts along the road. Ethran warns the characters 
that they should keep a low profile and not tear down 
these notices.
DRAYMOOR ROAD	
MODERATE 1
Midafternoon on the fourth day of travel out of 
Breachill, the wagon enters the small farming village 
of Draymoor.
Only a few squat buildings line the single road, which is 
muddy from a recent rain. The villagers go about their daily 
business with only a glance or two at the group. Ethran 
draws the horse alongside a general store and carefully 
climbs down to enter. “I’ll restock our supplies,” they say. 
“It should only take a few minutes. Watch the wagon, 
would you?”
Not long after Ethran heads inside, four angry-
looking individuals saunter out of Draymoor’s small 
tavern and begin to approach the wagon. Each of them 
wears hastily sewn patches depicting the flag of Cheliax 
and are armed with a light mace and a crossbow, 
though they haven’t drawn them. They accost the 
PCs with questions about where they’re coming from 
and what their business is in town. Use the Draymoor 
Road map on page 14 for this encounter.
Creatures: These locals are loyal to Cheliax’s rule 
over Isger and suspicious of all strangers. The PCs 
can try to get these loyalists to leave them alone by 
succeeding at two DC 15 Deception, Diplomacy, or 
Intimidation checks; each check can be attempted by 
a different person and they can use different skills or 
the same skill twice. If the PCs succeed, the loyalists 
are either mollified or scared off depending on the 
group’s tactics.
If the PCs fail two of these checks before they 
succeed, the loyalists get violent. Two of the loyalists 
fight with their light maces while the other two stand 
back and fire their crossbows. The loyalists try to 
remain adjacent to one another as they fight. If the 
PCs knock out two of the loyalists, the other two 
flee. The loyalists all flee if each of them is below 5 
Hit Points. During an altercation, the other village 
residents disappear indoors. Draymoor has no local 
law enforcement and the area’s sheriff won’t make her 
rounds here for another four days, so once the loyalists 
have been driven off or killed, the PCs are in no further 
danger here.
CHELAXIAN LOYALISTS (4)	
CREATURE –1
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Human patriots
Perception +5
Languages Common
Skills Athletics +5, Intimidation +4, Society +3
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +1, Cha +0
Items crossbow (10 bolts), leather armor, light mace
AC 14; Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +3
HP 10
Gang Determination When a Chelaxian loyalist is adjacent 
to at least one other ally, they gain a +1 circumstance 
bonus to Will saves.
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] light mace +5 (agile, shove), Damage 1d4+3 
bludgeoning
Melee [one-action] fist +5 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 
1d4+3 bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] crossbow +4 (range increment 120 feet), 
Damage 1d8 piercing
Reward: If the PCs defuse the situation without 
violence, award them XP as if they had defeated the 
13
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 15 =====
Chelaxian loyalists in combat. When Ethran returns 
to the wagon, they give the PCs a potency crystal and 
lesser atrophy bomb (page 209) they purchased.
RIVER CROSSING	
SEVERE 1
A day and a half later, the group arrives at the North 
Conerica River just before dusk. They only have to 
cross the river before the home stretch to Saringallow. 
A regular ferry shuttles travelers back and forth across 
the wide river. Another large group booked passage 
several minutes before the PCs, so the party has to wait 
until the ferry returns for its last trip of the evening. A 
riverside inn can be seen on the far bank, while the side 
the PCs are on features only a small shack and dock.
While they wait, the GM should attempt a secret DC 
16 Perception check for each PC. Those who succeed 
spot a pair of silhouettes against the setting sun that 
seem to be large flying creatures approaching fast; any 
successful PCs also receive a +1 circumstance bonus 
to their initiative in the upcoming fight. Use the River 
Crossing map above for this encounter.
Creatures: Illcayna Alonnor (malevolent female 
daughter of Urgathoa 9; page 242) has been operating 
in Isger for years, and the war has given her the 
opportunity to escalate her plans to take the nation. 
As she gathers her power in Finder’s Gulch dozens of 
miles to the west, her necromantic creations sometimes 
range far from the town. A pair of undead giant bats 
recently took to the skies in search of victims, turning 
various animals across the hillside into zombies. While 
the players are unlikely to learn where these zombie 
bats came from, their appearance foreshadows the 
undead troubles that await in later chapters. The 
zombie bats fight until they are destroyed.
If it looks like the PCs are having trouble during 
this fight, Ethran can offer them some tactical advice. 
Each round, they attempt to Aid a struggling PC’s next 
Strike by attempting a Warfare Lore check with a +10 
modifier. They otherwise try to stay near the wagon to 
keep the horse calm, but they do move out of a zombie 
bat’s rotting aura if subjected to it.
ZOMBIE GIANT BATS (2)	
CREATURE 2
UNCOMMON
LARGE
MINDLESS
UNDEAD
UNHOLY
ZOMBIE
Variant giant bat (Pathfinder Monster Core 40)
Perception +5; darkvision
Skills Acrobatics +4, Athletics +8
Str +4, Dex –2, Con +3, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –2
14
DRAYMOOR ROAD
DRAYMOOR ROAD
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
RIVER CROSSING
RIVER CROSSING
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 16 =====
Slow A zombie is permanently slowed 1 and can’t 
use reactions.
AC 15; Fort +9, Ref +4, Will +6
HP 70, void healing; Immunities bleed, death 
effects, disease, mental, paralyzed, poison, 
unconscious; 
Weaknesses 
clumsy 
flier, 
slashing 10, vitality 10
Clumsy Flier While a zombie giant bat can fly, 
its wings are barely able to keep it aloft. If 
it’s airborne when it takes a critical hit or 
any amount of slashing damage, it falls and 
it can’t Fly on its next turn.
Rotting Aura (aura, disease, void) 10 feet. 
The zombie giant bat emits an aura of 
rot and disease that cause wounds 
to fester. Any living creature that 
starts its turn within the aura and isn’t at full 
Hit Points takes 1d6 void damage.
Speed 20 feet, fly 20 feet
Melee [one-action] fangs +10, Damage 1d6+4 piercing
Melee [one-action] rotting wing +10 (agile), Damage 1d4+4 slashing
The Ferry Arrives: Shortly after the PCs defeat the 
zombie giant bats, the ferry returns to their side of 
the river. Utto, the ferry operator, is concerned about 
the group’s safety and quickly ushers them and the 
wagon onto his ferry. As the vessel makes its way 
back across, Utto asks the PCs what attacked them 
and if told, he nods his head knowingly. “My cousin 
told me that the dead have been mighty restless ever 
since all that god stuff fell from the sky. She thinks it 
has something to do with that lich what lives on Lake 
Encarthan.”
A PC who succeeds at a DC 18 Society or Politics 
Lore check has heard that “that lich” Tar-Baphon has 
mostly been concentrating his recent efforts on the 
Gravelands and attempting to subjugate the orcs of 
Belkzen. A PC who succeeds at a DC 14 Religion or 
Zombie Lore check knows that undead attacks can 
happen for a number of reasons, not all of which are 
related to a sinister necromancer trying to take over 
the world.
Welcome to Hellbreakers 
Headquarters
After crossing the river on the ferry, the PCs can 
spend the night at the inn and then continue on to 
Saringallow the next morning. There are no further 
incidents, and they arrive in the midafternoon at the 
northeastern gates.
Saringallow is a large walled town on the Conerica 
River that was founded as Sarini’s Hollow by the 
Chelaxian noble Sarini family a few centuries ago. 
After a series of mysterious deaths, the townspeople 
rose up against the Sarinis and publicly hanged them, 
giving the town its more somber sobriquet. More 
details about the town’s occult history and its 
current inhabitants can be found on page 201.
Despite the town having no love for 
Chelaxian nobles, the Hellbreakers League 
must still operate with some modicum of 
secrecy here. Regardless of whether PCs 
are from Saringallow or have visited 
the town before, they know that the 
League’s headquarters is in the basement 
of an unassuming two-story house on 
the eastern side of town. Rumors hold 
that the domicile was once the home 
of an alchemist who was corrupted by 
a demonic influence. His family has since 
moved away from Saringallow, and the founders of 
the Hellbreakers League purchased the house and 
constructed a large basement in which to plan their 
revolution. Agents sometimes stay in the house, but it 
isn’t large enough to lodge the entire League.
To gain entrance, the PCs know to knock on the front 
door and announce that they are “friends of Rose.” This 
is a reference to the goddess Milani, the patron of those 
who fight against injustice and tyranny and whose 
religious symbol is a rose in a pool of blood.
A dark-haired human woman opens the door and says 
with a smile, “Afternoon! Any friends of Rose can find 
refuge here.”
This is the proper response to the phrase the PCs 
gave, a reference to Milani’s celestial domain, the 
Refuge of the Red Rose. The woman answering the 
door is Maire Phelan (jovial female human storyteller 
3), who introduces herself after waving the PCs 
inside. The house’s main room looks like a typical 
cozy residence, with a hearth on the east wall and a 
large dining table in the center. After closing the front 
door, Maire approaches a plain wooden door in the 
southern wall, which she unlocks with an iron key. 
This leads to a set of stairs descending into the beating 
heart of the Hellbreakers League.
A wide basement stretches in front of the bottom of the 
staircase, crammed with several tables, a handful of chairs, 
and maps of Isger hung on nearly every wall. The tables 
are piled with documents, ledgers, and more maps. A tall 
hobgoblin man sorts through the documents, a stern look 
on his face. A side room has been cleared of all furniture, 
and two young soldiers spar within. A second, smaller 
alcove holds a magically heated iron stove that gives off 
15
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Xerra Bluebottle

===== Page 17 =====
warmth and light but no smoke. A white-haired halfling 
stands next to the stove, holding a pan filled with pastries.
Maire alerts the assembled group that their newest 
recruits have arrived (or returned) from Breachill 
with their Eagle Knight ally. Rhokrag (hardened male 
hobgoblin warrior 3) is the first to step forward and 
welcome the PCs; he quickly sizes them up and appears 
satisfied. He wants to debrief the PCs immediately, 
but Xerra Bluebottle (kind genderfluid halfling baker 
2) gently chides him for being so formal. She offers 
the PCs the sticky buns she was just toasting on the 
stove and tells them to grab chairs if they’re tired from 
the journey. Meanwhile, the two recruits, Cole Acton 
and “Rabbit” Dryden (eager male and female human 
recruits 1), pause their training to also partake of 
Xerra’s baked goods. The NPCs introduce themselves, 
and Rhokrag informs the PCs that the Hellbreakers 
League’s founders and leaders, Alceo (wise male 
aiuvarin cleric 7) and Phoebe Demetrias (righteous 
female human warrior 7), are currently in Elidir, doing 
their best to stop Hedvend’s bounty on dissidents at 
the source. While they don’t have direct contact with 
Isger’s steward, they’re surreptitiously trying to sway 
other members of the government in the hopes of 
pressuring Hedvend to rescind the bounty.
Xerra tells the PCs that if they want to rest in the 
house tonight, they can, though the second-floor 
accommodations will be a little cramped. Ethran needs 
to stay here as well until the League can find them a 
more permanent abode. Most Hellbreakers either have 
their own residences in Saringallow or stay at an inn 
in town between missions. Maire tells the PCs they 
can go the Fiend’s Finale, which gives discount rates 
to League members (5 sp a night for a private room 
that sleeps two).
But before the PCs can sleep, Rhokrag needs them 
to do something for the organization first.
Treasure: At some point after reaching the 
Hellbreakers headquarters, Ethran gives the PCs their 
+1 greatsword for escorting them to Saringallow. 
Ethran explains that with only one arm, they won’t 
have much use for it. “My job is to teach now, anyway,” 
they say with a smile.
Warehouse Mystery
With their first official mission for the Hellbreakers 
League complete, the PCs are immediately tasked 
with another. Rhokrag explains that supplies—armor, 
weapons, ammunition, rations, and so on—are the 
fuel that keeps a revolution’s fire burning, and the 
League is in constant need. There isn’t enough room 
within the house HQ to store all such provisions, so 
the League keeps them in a warehouse at the docks 
under the name of Everbloom Imports, a fictitious 
trading company and yet another reference to Milani.
Agents posing as merchants arrive in town 
with (usually stolen) supplies, move them into the 
warehouse, and then head back out into the country 
for their next mission. This morning, a League-
affiliated vessel arrived at the docks with provisions 
from Logas. Junior Hellbreaker Gertraud Mildenhall 
(confident female halfling smuggler –1) was to meet 
them at the warehouse and inventory the goods, but 
she hasn’t returned to headquarters yet.
Rhokrag is beginning to suspect something untoward 
might have happened, as Gertraud is known for being 
quite timely. Saringallow isn’t totally free of Chelaxian 
loyalists who would jump at the chance to collect a 
generous bounty. To make matters worse, this delivery 
from Logas was meant to help provision several 
missions out in the field and the League is running low 
on weapons and ammunition. The PCs are sent to the 
warehouse to see if anything happened to Gertraud.
Unfortunately, Rhokrag’s suspicions are correct. A 
handful of Chelaxian loyalists from Logas boarded the 
ship posing as Hellbreakers and tricked a dockworker 
into telling them the location of the League’s warehouse. 
They took the ship to the warehouse, grabbed Gertraud 
when she arrived, and are holding her hostage, intending 
to capture any additional dissidents who arrive to 
increase the bounty they’ll earn.
EVERBLOOM WAREHOUSE
EVERBLOOM WAREHOUSE
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
A2
A2
A3
A3
A1
A1
16

===== Page 18 =====
DOCKSIDE ROW
Saringallow’s docks are located on the south side of the 
city, right on the Conerica River. Warehouses line the 
street opposite, and throughout the day, a steady stream 
of stevedores unload cargo from docked ships and into 
those buildings. Carts arrive periodically to take the goods 
to their final destinations.
The warehouse for Everbloom Imports is at the 
eastern end of the street, partially isolated from the 
other buildings. If the PCs watch it for any period of 
time, they don’t see anyone enter or leave. They might 
want to ask around the area to see if anyone’s noticed 
anything suspicious. A PC who succeeds at a DC 16 
Perception check or a DC 14 Underworld Lore check 
spots a dark-haired youth lingering about. This is 
Valerra Clive (street-smart human female urchin 0), 
one of Saringallow’s less fortunate teens who do odd 
jobs for anyone who’ll pay them. She looks hopeful 
if the PCs approach her, assuming they need her to 
run a message or hold onto something not quite legal. 
When the PCs begin asking her questions about the 
warehouse, her excitement turns to disappointment, 
and she clams up. A PC who succeeds at a DC 18 
Diplomacy or Intimidation check convinces her to 
talk; offering her at least 2 sp achieves the same result.
Once sufficiently persuaded or bribed, Valerra tells 
the PCs that she saw three shifty-looking people come 
from the west end of the street and enter the warehouse 
early this morning after forcing open the side door. 
Before noon, a woman walked down the northern 
street and took out a key to open the same door; this 
woman didn’t seem to notice anything unusual. Since 
then, no one has come out. As a result of collecting this 
information, the PCs gain a +1 circumstance bonus to 
spot the falling crates trap in area A2 (page 18) and to 
the hazard’s Reflex saving throw.
Reward: If the PCs find out that something is odd 
about the Red Refuge from Valerra Clive, award them 
10 XP.
A1. OUTSIDE EVERBLOOM IMPORTS 
WAREHOUSE
The warehouse is a large, square building with a smaller 
annex on the eastern side. Double doors the width of a 
wagon are closed with a heavy chain and sturdy padlock. A 
regular-sized door leads into the annex.
The annex door is unlocked and slightly ajar. A PC 
who succeeds at a DC 17 Perception check or DC 15 
Crafting or Carpentry Lore check can see from a faint 
splintering in the frame that it was forced open. The 
padlock is an average lock (requiring four successful 
DC 25 Thievery checks to pick), and if the PCs 
manage to open it and quietly move the chain (DC 20 
Stealth check), they can catch the loyalists in area A3 
by surprise.
A2. WAREHOUSE ANNEX	
TRIVIAL 1
This attachment to the main warehouse holds some older-
looking crates stacked up against the east wall. An open 
doorway leads onto the warehouse floor to the west.
The Hellbreakers keep old, unused crates here after 
unpacking their contents in case they’re needed to 
smuggle goods elsewhere. Many of the crates are covered 
in crumbling forged bills of lading and a layer of dust.
THE THREE LIEUTENANTS
Maire Phelan, Rhokrag, and Xerra Bluebottle 
are the three highest-ranking members of the 
Hellbreakers League apart from the founders, 
Alceo and Phoebe Demetrias. Until Chapter 4, 
the PCs will be dealing mainly with these three 
lieutenants. The following descriptions should 
help you portray these NPCs over the course of 
the Adventure Path.
Maire Phelan is in charge of recruiting new 
agents and the League’s public relations. She’s 
always pleased to see the PCs and encourages 
them to describe their heroics in greater, more 
florid detail, noting that the people of Isger will 
rally around heroes. Maire is quick to offer a 
joke or some good-natured ribbing, especially to 
somber people like Rhokrag.
Rhokrag generally gives the PCs their missions 
and tends to remain out of the public eye. He 
recognizes that many are still prejudiced against 
goblinoids since the Goblinblood Wars, but he 
believes that getting out from under the thumb 
of Cheliax will help Isger heal. Rhokrag is quite 
serious and tends to appreciate PCs who are 
similarly no-nonsense.
Xerra Bluebottle keeps the League provisioned 
and armed. They work most days at Gunty’s 
Hearty Breads across town and often bring over 
the day-old pastries that Gunty Keronna can’t 
sell, warming them on the basement stove. They 
form an instant rapport with any PC who enjoys 
cooking or baking.
17
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 19 =====
Hazard: The first part of the loyalists’ plan is to soften 
up anyone entering the warehouse by collapsing heavy 
crates onto them. A thin trip wire stretches the width of 
the annex past a tall stack of crates (indicated by a square 
on the map); if triggered, it pulls the crates down.
FALLING CRATES	
HAZARD 3
MECHANICAL
 TRAP
Stealth DC 20 (trained)
Description A tower of precariously stacked crates is 
rigged to fall when someone steps through a trip wire.
Disable DC 17 Thievery (trained) to carefully remove the 
trip wire.
Tumble Down [reaction] Trigger A creature trips the wire; Effect 
Several heavy crates come crashing down in the 10-
foot square area marked on the map, dealing 2d10+10 
bludgeoning damage to each creature in that area (DC 
20 basic Reflex save). A creature who critically fails the 
save is knocked prone.
Stealthy Approach: If the PCs trip the trap or 
otherwise make a loud noise (such as by calling out 
for Gertraud), the loyalists on the main warehouse 
floor automatically hear the PCs coming and gain a 
+1 circumstance bonus to their initiative rolls. If more 
than half of the PCs succeed at Stealth checks against 
the Chelaxian loyalist leader’s Perception DC of 17 
and trap wasn’t triggered, the loyalists are unaware 
of the PCs’ approach and take a –1 circumstance 
penalty to their initiative rolls. If neither of the above 
situations occur, the loyalists gain neither a bonus 
nor a penalty.
A3. MAIN WAREHOUSE	
MODERATE 1
This is where the Hellbreakers League keeps the 
majority of their supplies in Saringallow.
Only a few crates occupy this large, open space. The floor 
is hard-packed dirt with the occasional scattering of straw, 
and double doors lead south to the road. A woman lies tied 
up and gagged on top of a single closed crate in the center 
of the warehouse.
The woman is Gertraud Mildenhall, one of the 
PCs’ fellow League members, who was captured by 
a group of Chelaxian loyalists earlier in the day. She 
squirms and yells a muffled warning when she sees 
the PCs enter. A PC can untie Gertraud or remove her 
gag each with a single Interact action, though she is 
effectively a noncombatant in the encounter with the 
loyalists here.
Creatures: A pair of Chelaxian loyalists, along 
with their brash leader, lurk in the warehouse to try 
to capture more dissidents and collect the bounty. 
While they were confident after capturing Gertraud, 
they become a bit hesitant when they see the party of 
PCs. They still attack when at least one PC enters the 
room, moving out from behind crates and trying to 
look intimidating. One loyalist uses a crate for cover 
while firing their crossbow, and the other loyalist and 
the leader enter in melee. The loyalists want to take the 
PCs alive for the bounty, so they nonlethally strike at 
any PC that has already been wounded, taking the –2 
circumstance penalty to the attack.
The loyalist leader zealously fights until reduced to 0 
HP. The other loyalists try to flee if they’re wounded and 
their leader has been incapacitated, though it’s likely the 
PCs are in the way of the only viable exit. If a fleeing 
loyalist has no path to freedom, they surrender instead.
CHELAXIAN LOYALISTS (2)	
CREATURE –1
Page 13
Initiative Perception +5
18
Chelaxian Loyalist

===== Page 20 =====
CHELAXIAN LOYALIST LEADER
CREATURE 1
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Male human patriot
Perception +7
Languages Common
Skills 
Athletics 
+7, 
Diplomacy 
+6, 
Intimidation +6, Society +4
Str +4, Dex +1, Con +1, Int +1, Wis +1, 
Cha +3
Items heavy crossbow (10 bolts), 
morningstar, studded leather armor
AC 15; Fort +6, Ref +5, Will +9
HP 25
Gang Determination When a Chelaxian loyalist is 
adjacent to at least one other ally, they gain a +1 
circumstance bonus to Will saves.
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] morningstar +7 (versatile P), Damage 1d6+4 
bludgeoning
Melee [one-action] fist +7 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 
1d4+4 bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] heavy crossbow +5 (range increment 120 feet), 
Damage 1d10 piercing
For Cheliax! [two-actions] (auditory, linguistic, visual) The Chelaxian 
loyalist leader Strides, shouting a Chelaxian slogan of 
loyalty. If they end the movement adjacent to a foe, they 
make a morningstar Strike against that foe. Each ally 
who hears and sees the loyalist leader attack can spend 
their reaction to Stride toward that foe.
GERTRAUD MILDENHALL	
CREATURE –1
Commoner (Pathfinder NPC Core 66)
Initiative Perception +3
Interrogating the Loyalists: If the PCs capture any 
of the loyalists, they admit they tricked a stevedore 
into pointing out this warehouse after arriving on a 
merchant ship from Logas that has since departed for 
Elidir. A captured loyalist holds no regret for their 
actions, referring to the PCs and their allies as “scum 
and vermin.” What the PCs do with any captives is 
up to them; since the PCs were defending themselves 
upon being attacked, they can turn any remaining 
loyalists over to the Saringallow watch—though, as 
revolutionaries, they might not want to get involved 
with the authorities. If the PCs give Valerra 5 sp, 
she’ll call the watch for them and keep an eye on any 
captured and restrained loyalists in the street while the 
PCs leave the scene.
Supply Inventory: The supposed delivery from 
Logas seems to have been a mistake or a ruse. Once 
rescued, Gertraud notes that at least the loyalists 
didn’t damage any of the League’s current supplies, 
which doesn’t amount to much. The few crates within 
the warehouse contain very basic goods: common 
suits of armor, shields, simple and martial weapons, 
and some ammunition (arrows 
and bolts, mainly). Gertraud 
matter-of-factly 
adds 
all 
weapons confiscated off the loyalists 
to the crates.
Treasure: Among the crated weapons 
is a low-grade silver melee weapon of 
the same type that one of the PCs 
uses regularly, and a whispering wire 
(page 212). Gertraud notices the PCs 
examining that weapon and insists that 
they take it for rescuing her. In addition, she 
hands another PC a masquerade scarf that has been 
passed around several Hellbreakers to aid in keeping 
a low profile, especially when securing supplies in a 
less-than-legal fashion.
Provisioning the Revolution
The next day, Rhokrag and Xerra meet with the 
agents to discuss the next steps. While they wait 
for further orders from the Demetriases, Xerra 
asks that the Hellbreakers here in Saringallow 
use the time to further provision the organization 
since their supplies from Logas were compromised. 
To that end, several groups are heading out of the 
city to raid some known Cheliax-friendly targets to 
procure armor, weapons, food, and other necessary 
materials. In the meantime, Ethran Howell will 
remain at the headquarters to continue to train a 
handful of new recruits and wait for any news from 
the League’s leaders.
As he delineates the specifics of each group’s 
mission, Rhokrag gives the following warning.
“I’m not going to lie—what we’re about to do will involve 
some law breaking. But you probably weren’t expecting 
to be upstanding Isgeri citizens when you signed up to 
be a Hellbreaker. We’re only taking what we need for the 
greater good of the country, and it’s not like those we’re 
taking from can’t afford to lose something. They’ll fight like 
that isn’t true, though, and who wouldn’t? You’re going 
to face some danger out there, mostly from hired guards 
who are just doing their jobs. Which is why, and I can’t 
stress this enough, we must refrain from killing as much as 
possible.” He briefly looks at each assembled Hellbreaker 
in turn.
“In the coming weeks and months, we’re going to 
need the people of Isger on our side. They must see us 
as fighting a good and necessary fight. Some might even 
join us! But until then, we can’t give Cheliax ammunition to 
19
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Rhokrag

===== Page 21 =====
paint us as violent marauders just looking to cause trouble. 
They’ll probably try to do that anyway, but let’s not leave 
a trail of bodies in our wake, yeah? Defend yourself if you 
must, of course, and I’m sure no one will miss a Thrune 
bootlicker or two, but keep the killing to a minimum.”
The PCs are tasked with some light river piracy. 
Rhokrag gives them directions to a spot on the North 
Conerica River that League scouts have determined 
would be a good place to ambush a passing trade 
vessel. Ships often move cargo out of Elidir bound 
for Cheliax. If a PC brings up the fact that Chelaxian 
ships pass by (and sometimes stop at) Saringallow 
all the time, Rhokrag responds, “That has a chance 
of bringing some unwanted scrutiny on the city in 
which we have our headquarters. Better we operate 
in places where such attacks could be blamed on 
bandits. For now.”
Petty Cash: Xerra gives the PCs 10 gp to buy 
anything they think they might need for the mission. 
“Better come back with more than that in supplies,” 
the halfling says with a wink.
Riverboat Ambush
The journey to the scouted ambush spot takes 
approximately two days and is relatively uneventful. 
The PCs continue to spot copies of Hedvend’s bounty 
on so-called traitors nailed up in the villages and farms 
they pass by, but no one stops them to question their 
loyalty. If the PCs took precautions to appear like 
everyday travelers, note that their thinking ahead is 
the cause of their smooth trip. Use the map to the left 
for this encounter.
B1. RIVERBANK
The PCs arrive at the designated spot—an area where 
the North Conerica River narrows a bit and passes 
by a rocky outcropping that provides excellent cover 
against ships approaching from the north—as the sun 
is setting. Most ships don’t travel much at night, so the 
PCs have time to make camp and prepare the area for 
an ambush.
Ambushing a ship, even one on a river, isn’t like 
committing highway robbery. There’s no easy way to 
stop the vessel’s passage short of completely blocking 
the river, which is well beyond the PCs’ capabilities. 
However, they should come up with some kind of plan 
that uses their party’s strengths.
Later that day, the PCs spot a potential target in 
the Night’s Prize, a trading vessel flying Chelaxian 
colors. It’s a relatively smaller boat, so it won’t have 
a lot of crew to deal with, and its hull sits low in the 
water, suggesting it’s full of cargo. The Night’s Prize 
is captained by Julenus Aedin (cutthroat male human 
privateer 1), a successful merchant who has a minor 
reputation for cruelty. No other boats are in view, 
so this is a perfect opportunity for the PCs to enact 
their plan.
Use the following examples as guidelines for how to 
adjudicate your group’s specific plan. Of course, some 
groups might simply start firing arrows and spells at 
the crew! Run the first combat from B2 with the PCs 
on the banks and the swabbies taking cover. Unless 
they have some way to stop or slow the ship, the PCs 
have 3 rounds to get aboard before the current takes 
the ship out of reach. A successful DC 12 Athletics 
check is required to Swim in the river.
Faking Distress: Tricky PCs might want to fool 
an approaching ship into stopping (or slowing 
down) long enough to be boarded. This requires a 
convincing reason (such as a false wound); each PC 
who participates in the ruse must attempt a DC 18 
Deception or Performance check. Less charismatic PCs 
can hide behind the outcropping by attempting DC 16 
Stealth checks. Anyone who fails their check takes a 
–1 circumstance penalty to their initiative roll. If all 
the PCs fail their checks, they can still attempt their 
ambush, but each member of the ship’s crew (but not 
the animated armor) gains a +1 circumstance bonus to 
the first attack roll they make against a PC.
Show of Force: The threat of violence might be 
enough to get an approaching ship to allow the 
RIVER BOAT AMBUSH
RIVER BOAT AMBUSH
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
B2
B2
B1
B1
20

===== Page 22 =====
PCs to board. Each PC should attempt a DC 20 
Intimidation check; a PC who uses a showy ability 
or casts a spell that has highly visible effects (like an 
illusion) receives an outcome one degree of success 
better. If at least half of the PCs succeed, they quickly 
get aboard the ship, and if they don’t, they have 
more difficulty once on board; each member of the 
ship’s crew (but not the animated armor) gains a +1 
circumstance bonus to their initiative.
Surprise Boarding: A passing boat has to sail close 
to the outcropping, giving the opportunities for PCs 
to hide until the right moment and then leap or rappel 
down into the ship’s rigging. As long as they lie 
low on top of the rock, the group doesn’t need 
to worry about Stealth checks, but each PC 
must attempt a DC 18 Acrobatics or Athletics 
check to get safely from the outcropping to the 
ship; PCs who can fly or float automatically 
succeed at this check. On a failure, the PC falls 
15 feet to the ship’s deck, taking falling damage 
and landing prone. On a critical failure, they are 
also stunned 1 for the first encounter in area B2. 
If all PCs succeed, they gain a +1 circumstance 
bonus to initiative for the first encounter.
B2. NIGHT’S PRIZE LOW 1 AND MODERATE 1
This riverboat is painted mostly red with black accents, 
mirroring the colors of the Chelaxian flag that flies from its 
mast. Spiky protrusions line the gunwales. A wide door leads 
into the ship to the aft, and a hatch leads down into the hull.
The Night’s Prize is a fairly typical, if small, vessel. 
A framed portrait of Abrogail Thrune hangs over the 
door to the captain’s quarters.
Creatures: As the PCs board the Night’s Prize, 
most of the crew throw up their hands and surrender. 
They aren’t paid enough to risk their lives repelling 
attackers, and a few know about the captain’s secret 
guardian (see The Captain’s Armor). However, two 
younger swabbies are eager to prove themselves to 
the captain and brandish bottles in response to the 
PCs’ intrusion. Each of them pleads for mercy when 
reduced to 5 or fewer Hit Points.
NIGHT’S PRIZE SWABBIES (2)	
CREATURE 0
Dockhand (Pathfinder NPC Core 66)
Initiative Perception +3
The Captain’s Armor: Upon hearing the news 
about the Battle of Hellknight Hill, Captain Aedin 
spent most of the profits of his previous cargo run 
on an animated suit of armor in Elidir. This was 
mainly to protect himself from any anti-Cheliax 
rebels he believes are roaming the countryside, 
including fighting off boarders and pirates. At the 
beginning of the third round of combat with the 
swabbies or the round after both swabbies have been 
defeated, Captain Aedin appears in the doorway to 
his quarters, standing next to an intricate black suit 
of armor with no one inside. “You have 5 seconds 
to get off my damned ship,” he says, pointing his 
dagger at the PCs. No matter what the PCs reply, 
the two roll initiative.
21
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Captain’s Armor

===== Page 23 =====
The animated armor protects the captain at all costs 
and attempts to always end its turn adjacent to him. 
Captain Aedin presses his attacks against wounded 
PCs first. The captain fights to the death, knowing 
that his animated armor has a final trick up its sleeve 
(see Sinking Ship!). If the captain is killed before the 
armor is destroyed, the armor begins acting erratically. 
It spends 1 action each turn Striding up to 10 feet in a 
random direction, though it never falls over the edge 
of the ship.
CAPTAIN JULENUS AEDIN	
CREATURE 1
Weak navigator (Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 146)
Initiative Perception +7
ANIMATED ARMOR	
CREATURE 2
Pathfinder Monster Core 18
Initiative Perception +6
SINKING SHIP!	
MODERATE 1
When the animated armor has been reduced to 0 Hit 
Points, the captain’s final failsafe is triggered. Bright 
red runes flare up on the armor as it collapses, and 
the PCs hear muffled explosions from below deck. 
Out of paranoia, when Captain Aedin purchased 
the animated armor, he magically linked its runes to 
three containers of alchemist’s fire stored within the 
hull of the ship. He planned to defuse the runes when 
the Night’s Prize reached its destination, but the PCs’ 
attack has justified their installation.
The Night’s Prize begins to simultaneously burn 
and sink. If the PCs want to salvage any supplies 
before they are destroyed or lost at the bottom of the 
river, they’ll have to act fast. This encounter uses the 
Victory Point subsystem (Pathfinder GM Core 184) 
to track how successful the PCs are during this crisis. 
Each obstacle has a threshold of Victory Points (VP) 
required to overcome it. Actions are made in phases 
where each PC can attempt a check to earn Victory 
Points toward the completion of a chosen obstacle. 
If the group’s VP total for an obstacle equals or 
exceeds the threshold of that obstacle, they overcome 
that obstacle. With the exception of the Swimming 
to Safety obstacle, the PCs can attempt any of the 
obstacles in any order, and each PC can work toward 
a different obstacle if they wish. The Subduing the 
Captain obstacle is available only if Captain Aedin 
is still alive.
The PCs have six phases before the Night’s Prize 
completely sinks. If the PCs haven’t completed the 
Swimming to Safety obstacle before then, any PC who 
didn’t contribute a VP to that obstacle’s completion 
becomes fatigued from their efforts to swim ashore.
AIDING THE CREW	
OBSTACLE
Threshold 4; Overcome DC 17 Athletics, Diplomacy, or 
Medicine; DC 15 Sailing Lore
Some of the Night’s Prize crew were injured in the 
explosions or are panicking as the ship sinks. The PCs can 
either tend to their wounds, carry them to safety, or calm 
them down.
PUTTING OUT FIRES	
OBSTACLE
Threshold 4; Overcome DC 18 Acrobatics or Survival
A multitude of fires have broken out across the ship. 
Putting them out will make other tasks easier.
Special A PC who can magically produce water can use 
the skill associated with the tradition of that magic to 
overcome this obstacle. If a phase ends and the PCs 
haven’t overcome this obstacle, each PC who hasn’t 
succeeded at a check to overcome the Swimming to 
Safety obstacle takes 1d4 fire damage.
SECURING SUPPLIES	
OBSTACLE
Threshold 2; Overcome DC 16 Athletics, Crafting, or 
Thievery; DC 15 Mercantile Lore; DC 17 Perception
Several crates of supplies—food, clothing, and alchemical 
items—are stored in the ship’s hold. The PCs must try to 
secure as much as possible for the Hellbreakers League.
Special The PCs can attempt to overcome this obstacle 
multiple times. Keep track of how many times the PCs 
overcome this obstacle for their rewards. If the PCs have 
yet to overcome the Subduing the Captain obstacle (if 
the captain is still alive), they take a –2 circumstance 
penalty to checks to overcome this obstacle as the 
captain tries to stop them from stealing his goods.
SUBDUING THE CAPTAIN	
OBSTACLE
Threshold 3; Overcome DC 17 Intimidation or attack roll
If Captain Aedin is still alive, he could prove to be a 
nuisance to the PCs.
Special A PC who casts spells can expend them to subdue 
the captain. Attempt a DC 17 spell attack roll or have the 
captain attempt a saving throw as usual for the spell. 
A failure on a saving throw grants 1 VP, while a critical 
failure grants 2. At the GM’s discretion, certain spells 
might completely subdue the captain, immediately 
overcoming this obstacle.
SWIMMING TO SAFETY	
OBSTACLE
Threshold 4; Overcome DC 15 Athletics, Nature, or Survival
Before the Night’s Prize completely sinks, the PCs must get 
off the ship and swim to shore.
Special Once the PCs decide to attempt this obstacle, 
they can’t simultaneously attempt to overcome any 
other obstacles. Once they overcome this obstacle, the 
encounter ends.
22

===== Page 24 =====
Reward: If the PCs overcame the Securing Supplies 
obstacle at least once in the six phases before the ship 
sinks, award them 30 XP; if they overcome it 
three or more times, award them 40 XP. If 
the PCs overcame the Aiding the Crew 
obstacle, a grateful sailor gives them 
a bottle of bortled favorite (page 
209). In addition, they receive 
an early Reputation Point (see 
Chapter 2) for helping the crew.
RIVER REPTILES
LOW 1
The PCs have 10 minutes to 
catch their breath once everyone 
is out of the river as the remains of 
the Night’s Prize finishes sinking. 
Unfortunately, however, the chaos 
of the moment has garnered the 
attention of some local fauna. This encounter 
takes place in B1.
Creatures: A mated pair of gliding river snakes 
launches out of the water, disturbed from their aquatic 
nest by bits of debris from the ship. Protective of their 
territory, they attack anyone on the banks to drive 
them off.
GLIDING RIVER SNAKES (2)	
CREATURE 0
Page 230
Initiative Perception +6
Treasure: Washed up from the remains of the Night’s 
Prize is a ring of discretion (Pathfinder Treasure Vault 
154), a greased axle (page 210), and a fine compass 
worth 10 gp.
Returning to Saringallow
Even if the PCs didn’t stop to rescue any of the Night’s 
Prize crew, some of them made it to shore. They are 
in no shape to put up a fight and, unless the PCs stop 
them, they trudge off in the direction of Elidir (or 
another nearby settlement). If asked or threatened, 
these individuals promise not to say anything about 
the PCs to any authorities. In fact, one of them is 
grateful to the PCs for dealing with Captain Aedin, 
whom they categorize as a “cruel, unfeeling man.” 
While some of the crew might be Chelaxian citizens, 
none of them have strong opinions about the current 
political situation. If any of the PCs express a sentiment 
of leaving no witnesses, remind them that they’ve been 
asked to kill only in self-defense.
It takes 2 days to return to Saringallow, though it 
might take longer if the PCs didn’t secure a method of 
transport such as a wagon for the supplies. If the PCs 
successfully overcame the Aiding the Crew obstacle 
during the Sinking Ship! encounter, those they helped 
can either aid the PCs in carrying the supplies 
or procure a cart for them. The journey is 
uneventful, especially if the characters 
play the parts of simple traveling 
citizens.
GONE MISSING
When the PCs get back to the 
Hellbreakers headquarters, they 
are debriefed by Maire, who seems 
a bit distracted. She’s pleased with 
whatever supplies the PCs return with 
and gives them a brief rundown 
of the other groups’ successes 
if asked. Afterward, Ethran 
approaches the PCs to let them 
know that there are whispers that Rhokrag 
hasn’t yet returned from his own mission. He was 
scheduled to check in the previous day and is far too 
disciplined to either miss an appointed time or neglect 
to send word if he’ll be late. If the PCs aren’t already 
concerned, Ethran suggests that they either talk to 
Maire about the possibility of Rhokrag’s capture or 
death, or track Rhokrag down themselves.
A PC who succeeds at a DC 15 Diplomacy 
check to Gather Information learns from the other 
Hellbreakers (or from Maire if they go right to the 
source) that Rhokrag had gone off on his own for 
some reconnaissance on the road to Logas, hoping 
to get some advance notice if Hellknight forces have 
regrouped enough to range further into Isger again. 
Specifically, Rhokrag had a local non-League contact 
that he was going to meet at the Waterspout Inn, a 
riverside tavern and lodging house halfway between 
Logas and Saringallow. If the PCs fail this check, they 
receive the same information from Ethran, who has 
since spoken with Maire. Later that same day, if the 
PCs haven’t already volunteered to pursue this lead, 
Maire asks them to do so.
Rhokrag’s Rescue
Unfortunately, when Rhokrag met his contact at the 
Waterspout Inn, he was betrayed. With whispers of 
insurgents and revolutionaries in Isger, the Chelaxian 
navy sent a patrol ship up the Conerica to make it 
clear to the citizens who was in charge. This vessel, 
the Witchfire, is captained by Lamperia Bane (ruthless 
female human captain 3), a steadfast military woman 
who signed her soul away to Hell only a few years 
ago in exchange for a rapid rise up the ranks. Upon 
arriving in Isger, Captain Bane began announcing that 
23
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Maire Phelan

===== Page 25 =====
she would double the bounty started by Hedvend for 
information on dissidents. Most of her informants had 
little real information with the exception of Rhokrag’s 
contact, who was swayed by greed to help lay a trap 
for the Hellbreaker at the Waterspout Inn.
Captain Bane drove off the tavern’s other customers 
and recruited local loyalists to help take Rhokrag 
prisoner when he arrived. She then docked the 
Witchfire behind the inn and took Rhokrag on board 
to interrogate him, hoping to learn the activities and 
locations of his comrades in revolution. He hasn’t 
broken by the time the PCs arrive, but his resolve is 
beginning to waver, especially since Captain Bane 
called on the services of Zemaniah (sadistic male 
interrogator entrapment devil 1). Meanwhile, most of 
the Witchfire’s crew has gone off to harass locals in 
hopes of weeding out more Hellbreakers. Those who 
remain have set up camp between the inn and the 
docks to stand guard.
The PCs arrive shortly before dusk outside the 
Waterspout Inn approximately 2 days after they leave 
Saringallow. From the road, they can see a two-masted 
ship flying the Chelaxian flag docked behind it. In 
addition, a handful of red-and-black tents have been 
erected near the riverbank behind the inn. Another 
Chelaxian banner hangs above them. It’s clear that 
Chelaxian forces have occupied the inn, but what isn’t 
clear is where they might be holding Rhokrag. Luckily, 
the PCs have the element of surprise at the moment.
If they watch the area from afar for a bit, they notice 
that no one enters or leaves the inn. A PC who also 
succeeds at a DC 17 Perception check spots some 
movement in the windows of the inn’s first floor. A 
PC who succeeds at a DC 16 Warfare Lore check 
recognizes that camp is visible from the deck of the 
ship, and unless they are very stealthy, once they enter 
the camp, they’ll likely be spotted; any fighting within 
the camp will probably be heard from the ship.
The PCs should decide whether they want to mount 
their rescue right away or wait a little more than an 
hour until nightfall. At night, lanterns are lit inside the 
inn on the first floor, and the Chelaxian soldiers light 
torches in the camp and lanterns on the Witchfire. 
These provide light for many ancestries to see at short 
range, but outside of their radius, the cover of darkness 
could grant certain characters an edge against the 
unsuspecting loyalists. Use the Witchfire map above 
for this encounter.
C3
C3
C5
C5
C4
C4a
C4
C4b
C6
C6
C2
C2
C1
C1
24
 THE WITCHFIRE
 THE WITCHFIRE
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 26 =====
C1. INN YARD
A small stone fountain, its basin empty except for several 
fallen leaves, stands just a few yards from the road. The 
two-story inn beyond it was once painted a bright blue, 
but the color has faded to gray. A sign above the front door 
reads “Waterspout Inn” with a crude image of an upward 
spray of water. A path of churned-up dirt by the fountain 
leads to an unattached stable.
The inn’s fountain has been drained for the autumn 
and winter seasons. The stable is unoccupied, apart 
from a few mice nibbling on some old hay.
As they don’t know who’s inside the inn, the 
PCs might try to create a diversion to draw out the 
occupants. To do so, a PC must succeed on a DC 12 skill 
check, depending on the nature of the ruse; Deception 
and Performance are likely the most applicable skills. 
The loyalists inside have grown bored after the brief 
excitement of capturing Rhokrag, so they’re eager to 
investigate any sounds.
C2. WATERSPOUT INN	
LOW 1
A fire burns in the hearth of this simple tavern to ward off 
the autumnal chill. A gaudily painted trident hangs above 
the fireplace. Several tables have been pushed against one 
wall, their accompanying chairs haphazardly stacked on 
top. A door leads out to the inn’s front yard and a slightly 
smaller door next to the bar leads out back. A set of stairs 
leads up to the second floor.
When Captain Bane arrived a few days ago and 
rented out the whole building, Vinzent, the inn’s 
proprietor, guiltily drank himself into a stupor as he 
knows the captain is likely to have ill intentions for 
Isger. He’s currently passed out on one of the upstairs 
room’s beds. If the PCs find and wake him, he gives 
them a warning about Captain Bane: “She consorts 
with devils, she does!” Otherwise, the rented rooms 
are empty.
Creatures: Three of the loyalists recruited by 
Captain Bane are on the first floor, occasionally 
partaking of the inn’s alcohol and playing games of 
darts. They’re waiting for the captain to finally break 
Rhokrag, giving them more targets on which to vent 
their pro-Cheliax ire. They’re cowards at heart, so if 
one of them is knocked unconscious, the other two 
try to flee through the most accessible door. This 
might mean they run out the back, alerting the camp. 
Otherwise, the recruits are used to hearing the loyalists 
carousing and don’t investigate if they hear noises 
from the inn.
CHELAXIAN LOYALISTS (3)	
CREATURE –1
Page 13
Initiative Perception +5
Innkeeper’s Aid: To alleviate his guilt in helping 
Bane, Vinzent offers the PCs a lesser bottled lightning 
and swift sparrow marvelous miniature (page 210) 
that he had in storage.
C3. SHORE CAMP	
MODERATE 1
Three tents have been erected in the narrow stretch 
between the inn and the river. Pennants with the national 
symbol of Cheliax fly from each tent, occasionally flapping 
in a cold breeze coming from off the water. A campfire 
smolders in the middle of the tents, surrounded by a couple 
of collapsible cloth camp stools.
Despite having rented out the inn’s few rooms, 
Captain Bane insists that her crew either remain on 
board the ship or set up camp outside the inn. She 
doesn’t want them “going soft” after sleeping in beds 
for a few nights. The three tents here are dyed red and 
black and each hold one sleeper.
Creatures: Two recent recruits to the Witchfire’s 
crew have been relegated to camp duty. One of the 
local loyalists is also here, eager to curry favor with 
anyone associated with the Chelaxian government. 
Though the recruits are relaxing, they’re still 
disciplined soldiers. They’re wearing their armor and 
have their weapons within arm’s reach as they sit by 
the campfire.
If they spot the PCs before combat starts, they first 
attempt to scare off the PCs. When it becomes clear 
that the PCs aren’t civilians, one recruit takes up their 
guisarme and demands the loyalist backs them up in 
melee combat, while the other recruit fires arrows 
at any other ranged combatant or spellcaster. The 
loyalist tries to flee if either of the recruits are knocked 
unconscious, but the recruits are steadfastly faithful to 
Cheliax and Captain Bane and fight until reduced to 
0 Hit Points.
By now, the recruits are used to commotions 
coming from inside the inn as other loyalists drink 
and get rowdy, so they don’t respond to any sounds of 
combat. However, if the PCs manage to sneak aboard 
the Witchfire and start a fight, the recruits will take a 
round to gather their weapons and rush onto the ship; 
the loyalist doesn’t join them.
CHELAXIAN LOYALIST	
CREATURE –1
Page 13
Initiative Perception +5
25
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 27 =====
CHELAXIAN RECRUITS (2)	
CREATURE 0
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Male human inductee
Perception +6
Languages Common
Skills Athletics +6, Intimidation +5, Survival +3
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +1, Cha +0
Items chain shirt, guisarme, shortbow (10 arrows)
AC 16; Fort +9, Ref +6, Will +4
HP 15
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] guisarme +8 (reach, trip), Damage 1d10+3 
slashing
Melee [one-action] fist +8 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 
1d4+3 bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] shortbow +6 (deadly d10, range increment 60 
feet), Damage 1d6 piercing
Punish the Fallen [one-action] Requirements The Chelaxian recruit’s 
last action was a successful Trip against a foe; Effect 
The Chelaxian recruit makes a guisarme Strike against 
the prone foe. This attack is at the same multiple attack 
penalty as the Trip, but they increase their multiple attack 
penalty as usual after the Strike has been resolved.
Treasure: Within the camping crew members’ tents 
are two lesser atrophy bombs (page 209) and two vials 
of lesser alchemist’s fire.
C4A. WITCHFIRE DECK	
MODERATE 1
A short gangplank leads up from the riverbank to the deck 
of this Chelaxian vessel. Most of the planks making up the 
deck and hull have been painted black, though elaborate 
wooden scrollwork along the gunwales and across the bow 
depict curling wicks of flame, the tips of which have been 
colored a bright green. Other details around the ship have 
been painted the same color, giving an eerie effect. Doors 
lead fore and aft, and a ladder leads down into the hold. A 
Chelaxian flag flies from top the taller of the two masts.
The Witchfire’s color scheme is meant to intimidate 
enemy vessels and help the vessel move stealthily 
through the night when necessary. It’s a well-
maintained ship, thanks to Captain Bane’s strictness. 
With such a small crew, she can focus her attention 
on any one of them at any point to discipline laziness 
or incompetence.
The rigging here can be climbed with a successful 
DC 10 Athletics check.
Creatures: Two marines are on board at all times, 
keeping watch for threats from the river and scrubbing 
the deck. The marines use their familiarity with the 
ship to their advantage, climbing up into the rigging 
and attacking PCs below. Any marines the PCs 
encounter here have served with Captain Bane for a 
few years, so they know she expects them to die for 
her; they fight until brought down to 0 HP.
These marines are a little afraid to leave their posts 
but are equally worried about allowing intruders to 
interrupt Captain Bane’s interrogations. If they notice 
a fight at the camp in area C3, they wait until the 
third round of combat before rolling initiative and 
disembarking the ship. When they do so, they begin 
the fight frightened 1.
CHELAXIAN MARINES (2)	
CREATURE 1
Rigger (Pathfinder NPC Core 146)
Initiative Perception +10
C4B. HOLD
The Witchfire’s hold is currently empty, save for a 
human-sized cage that acts as a brig and a single chest 
at the other end.
Treasure: Inside the chest is the ship’s payroll, 
consisting of 30 gp. Captain Bane leaves the chest 
unlocked, as the crew knows better than to try to steal 
the money. The last swabbie who tried was hanged 
from the boom.
C5. GALLEY
The aft doors lead into the ship’s galley, which contains its 
stores of fresh water and salted meat. Several hammocks 
hang near the ship’s fore, each covered by a thin blanket.
This area serves as the place where the crew eats and 
sleeps. The Witchfire doesn’t have a dedicated ship’s 
cook, so the recruits take turns preparing meager meals.
C6. CAPTAIN’S QUARTERS	
SEVERE 1
This spacious chamber is lavishly furnished with black 
and red velvet drapes, overstuffed chairs, a bed, and 
a mahogany desk. Several trinkets sit on shelves. The 
grandeur of the decor is marred by fresh bloodstains on the 
floor. Sitting in the center of the room is Rhokrag, barely 
conscious and tied to a wooden chair. His face is a map of 
bruises and cuts. Behind him stands a tall and imposing 
woman dressed in the uniform of the Chelaxian navy, as 
well as a grinning devil.
The captain’s quarters have been temporarily 
transformed into an interrogation room, as Captain 
Bane and her summoned devil accomplice have been 
questioning Rhokrag here for the past few days. A PC 
can free Rhokrag with a single Interact action, but 
26

===== Page 28 =====
his weakened state makes him unable to participate 
directly in combat.
Creatures: Captain Bane is a staunch Thrune 
supporter and diabolist. Upon capturing Rhokrag, she 
performed a brief ritual to gain the temporary services 
of an entrapment devil. Rhokrag has resisted the 
devil’s methods so far, but he grows weaker the longer 
his torment continues.
Captain Bane is quick to order the devil, Zemaniah, 
to attack the PCs when they interrupt the interrogation. 
She isn’t afraid to engage in melee and fights to the 
death to protect her prize (and her ship).
ZEMANIAH	
CREATURE 1
Insidiator (page 224)
Initiative Perception +10
CAPTAIN LAMPERIA BANE	
CREATURE 3
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
UNHOLY
Female human navy captain
Perception +9; greater darkvision
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Acrobatics +9, Athletics +7, Deception +7, Diplomacy 
+7, Hell Lore +9, Intimidation +10, Sailing Lore +9, 
Society +7
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +1, Wis +1, Cha +2
Items heavy crossbow (10 bolts), rapier, studded leather 
armor
AC 18; Fort +6, Ref +12, Will +9
HP 45; Weaknesses holy 3; Resistances fire 3
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] rapier +12 (deadly d8, disarm, finesse), Damage 
1d6+4 piercing plus captain’s edge
Melee [one-action] fist +12 (agile, finesse, nonlethal, unarmed), 
Damage 1d4+4 bludgeoning plus captain’s edge
Ranged [one-action] heavy crossbow +12 (range increment 120 feet), 
Damage 1d10+2 piercing plus captain’s edge
Divine Innate Spells DC 17, attack +9; Cantrips (2nd) ignition
Captain’s Edge Lamperia deals an additional 1d8 precision 
damage with Strikes when aboard her ship.
Hell’s Glare [two-actions] (emotion, fear, mental) Lamperia’s 
eyes glow like the fires of Hell as she swings 
her blade. Lamperia makes a rapier 
Strike. If she hits and deals damage, 
the target is frightened 1 (frightened 
2 on a critical hit).
RHOKRAG
CREATURE –1
Commoner (Pathfinder NPC Core 66)
Treasure: The trinkets on the captain’s desk are 
worth 35 gp. A PC who searches the desk also finds a 
harpy’s talon (page 210) and a pair of simple manacles.
A Hellknight’s Revenge?
As the group draws close to Saringallow, Rhokrag 
speaks up.
“There’s something bigger at play,” Rhokrag says, wincing 
as he walks. “I overheard the captain telling her crew that 
‘Hellknight Ahala’ would pay handsomely for information 
on the League to ‘strike back against the rebels who 
fomented the violence in Breachill.’ If there’s a Hellknight 
out there hunting us down for revenge, we’d best tread 
carefully until we learn more.”
Reward: For rescuing Rhokrag, award the PCs 
80 XP.
27
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Lamperia Bane

===== Page 29 =====
28
After rescuing Rhokrag from the Witchfire and 
returning to Saringallow, the PCs have 1 week of 
downtime for their own personal projects. This is 
an excellent time for the characters to train and 
level up, purchase or craft equipment, or rest and 
recuperate.
Some characters might want to look into the name 
“Hellknight Ahala,” but there isn’t much to find. Viro 
Ahala (vengeful male human Hellknight armiger 5; 
page 246) has little to his name, though he aims to fix 
that. A survivor of the Battle of Hellknight Hill, Viro 
yearns for vengeance against the Hellbreakers and is 
plotting their destruction with fiendish obsession.
Having learned about the Sisterhood of the Golden 
Erinys, an Isgeri monastic order fostered by the Church 
of Asmodeus, Viro approached the sisters in the name 
of the Order of the Rack and was persuasive enough 
to enlist their aid. Believing him to be a true Hellknight 
thanks to stolen armor and his confident arrogance, 
Sister Endreah (steely female human Asmodean nun 
4) brought him to a hidden monastery called the 
Lucent Mission (page 42), where he discovered a 
grand ritual to summon a devil that could give him 
the power needed to defeat the League. While the PCs 
are busy recruiting the citizens of Isger, Viro is likewise 
recruiting several other fleeing Hellknight armigers on 
his way to a series of caves in the Chitterwood where 
he can enact his ritual.
Building a Political 
Movement
At the end of the week, Rhokrag calls for an 
organization-wide meeting after receiving a message 
from the Demetriases.
Chapter 2:
For the Cause

===== Page 30 =====
29
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Hellbreakers fill every corner of the basement headquarters 
as Rhokrag climbs onto a table and holds up a folded sheet 
of paper. “We just got word from Alceo and Phoebe, and 
they are quite pleased with our efforts so far!” A general 
murmur of satisfaction runs through the assembled. “They 
especially want to acknowledge the efforts of my 
rescuers.”
“And to tell you to stay away from boats from 
now on!” shouts Maire to some scattered laughter.
“We all make mistakes,” coughs Rhokrag. “The 
Demetriases are reporting that due in large part 
to our supply raids on various trade vessels, 
Druma has begun to limit their trade routes 
on the Conerica. Yes, this will hurt Isger’s 
economy more than Cheliax’s, but it’s a start. 
Hedvend is likely going to increase military 
patrols near the river, maybe even going so 
far as to ask for soldiers from Thrune.” The 
crowd boos. “The Demetriases are suggesting 
that we ease back on the raids for now. We need to show 
the citizens of Isger that the Hellbreakers League is more 
than a band of violent insurgents. They need to know that 
we care about the land and its people. This is OUR land. 
These are OUR people.” Another cheer rises up, louder than 
the first.
“Over the next few weeks, you’ll be going out among 
those people to spread the word of why Isgeri independence 
is so important. Talk to them. Find out what’s important to 
them and convince them it’s important to you as well. And 
if they need help, give it.”
The PCs are assigned an area of Isger south of the 
Conerica River and north of the Chitterwood that 
includes villages like Umok, Stumpfield, and Vordia, 
as well as the garrison at Wolfpoint. The PCs don’t 
need to range as far west as Logas or as far east 
as Dustpawn as another group has been assigned 
the southeast portion of Isger east of the Aspodell 
Mountains. See the map of Isger on page 176 for these 
settlements’ exact locations; you should also share this 
map with the players.
The PCs can visit these locations in any order they 
see fit, though Wolfpoint is the closest to Saringallow. 
The characters might ask about other villages and 
farms along their route; such locations are not detailed 
in this chapter, but you can describe them as being 
generally peaceful, albeit worried about the brewing 
hostilities between Andoran and Cheliax. Most Isgeri 
citizens don’t want to be caught in the middle of 
another bloody war. The PCs can make a single skill 
check during each day of travel to represent speaking 
with these townspeople and farmers to gain Reputation 
Points, as described in Countryside Travel on page 30.
There is no time limit for this portion of the 
adventure, though as the PCs help people and 
investigate unusual goings-on, they will eventually get 
a lead on Viro Ahala’s plans to get revenge against the 
Hellbreakers League.
GAINING REPUTATION POINTS
During this chapter, the PCs gain Reputation 
Points (RP), which represent the positive 
opinion and goodwill that the people of Isger 
have toward the Hellbreakers League and the 
idea of Isgeri independence. By defeating 
certain foes and solving problems, the 
PCs will gain RP automatically, but there 
will also be opportunities for skill checks 
to gain additional RP. Keep track of the 
group’s RP total, as they will be important 
in later chapters, as well as affecting how 
much the PCs will need to worry about 
Hedvend’s bounty on insurgents as the weeks progress. 
If the PCs saved the crew of the Night’s Prize in Chapter 
1, they start with 1 RP.
4 or fewer RP: If the PCs mention that they are 
affiliated with the Hellbreakers League or express open 
disdain for the Chelaxian government before they gain 
any RP at a location, attempt a DC 11 flat check. On 
a failure, at least a few people in the area still have a 
positive opinion toward Cheliax and mistrust the PCs’ 
intentions. The PCs take a –2 circumstance penalty to 
skill checks to gain Reputation Points at this location.
5–8 RP: As above, but the flat check is DC 5.
9–12 RP: As above, but the flat check is DC 5 and 
the PCs only take a –1 circumstance penalty on a 
failure.
13 or more RP: Most of the people the PCs talk to 
are receptive to the idea of throwing off the yoke of 
Chelaxian rule. You don’t need to attempt a flat check 
if the PCs openly mention their affiliation.
Reward: The first time the PCs have a total of 10 or 
more RP, award them 10 XP.
Development: When the PCs reach 10 Reputation 
Points, they’re approached by Sister Sylve (See A 
Repentant Sister on page 41).
WHAT HAVE WE HEARD?
The PCs might want to know about the places they 
are being sent before they head out of Saringallow. 
They can attempt a DC 16 Diplomacy check to Gather 
Information or a DC 16 Isger Lore or Society check 
to Recall Knowledge about each place, learning the 
information listed below on a success. Each location 
also lists an additional skill a PC can use to Recall 
Knowledge about that location.
Hellbreaker Symbol

===== Page 31 =====
30
Wolfpoint (Warfare Lore): The Wolfpoint reserve 
garrison was built before the Goblinblood Wars to 
hold soldiers and officers with the primary purpose 
of protecting the roads by the Conerica River from 
bandit activity. The wooden palisade of Wolfpoint 
isn’t impenetrable, though, having burned to the 
ground during the war. On a critical success, the PC 
has also heard that the soldiers stationed there have 
been reassigned to the Andoran border, leaving the 
garrison unoccupied.
Vordia (Religion): Vordia is a small, traditional 
Isgeri town northwest of the Aspodell Mountains. 
During the Goblinblood Wars, it suffered a fair amount 
of damage and many of its people were killed. The 
Chelaxian government helped rebuild after the war, 
creating a fair amount of goodwill with the people 
that lasts to this day. On a critical success, the PC also 
knows that the Sisterhood of the Golden Erinys has 
run an orphanage in Vordia since the war.
Umok (Gnome Lore): Umok is a gnome settlement 
nestled between the Chitterwood and the Aspodell 
Mountains. The residents have had unfortunate 
dealings with goblins in the past (not including the 
Goblinblood Wars) and have outlawed fire within 
500 yards of the village. They instead use magic and 
alchemy for cooking, warmth, and light. On a critical 
success, the PC has heard that the gnome villagers 
maintain a network of wild animals to warn them of 
a dangerous creature’s approach. They also know that 
Umok is known for raising Isgeri boarhounds (page 
215), a breed of dog with a penchant for hunting 
down extraplanar prey.
Stumpfield (Goblin Lore): Stumpfield is something 
of an oddity in Isger, as a recently established village 
of artists of both goblin and human. Located just 
north of the Chitterwood, the village and its residents 
are considered “weird but harmless” by most. On a 
critical success, the PC also knows that there is some 
tension between Stumpfield and the nearby farming 
village of Fernsby, which provides a lot of Stumpfield’s 
day-to-day goods.
Countryside Travel
Like in most countries, small roads and paths 
crisscross the whole of Isger that aren’t marked on any 
map. Most locals know how to get to the three or four 
places that are most important to them, so these roads 
lack any consistent signage. However, traveling from 
one location to another isn’t meant to be a challenge 
for the PCs; a character might even originally be from 
this area! Most residents are happy enough to point 
the party in the right direction, especially in some of 
the larger towns like Vordia. Use the map on page 
176 to chart approximate distances between locations 
and the party’s slowest Speed to determine how many 
miles they can travel in 1 day.
These journeys should be relatively uneventful, 
though if you feel the PCs are lacking in XP, a group 
of Chelaxian loyalists or Chelaxian recruits might 
attempt to bar their passage on the road. Alternatively, 
a wild animal or two might be hungry and desperate 
enough to stalk the PCs as they travel, attacking when 
they are all alone.
In addition, each day they are on the road, one PC 
can attempt a DC 18 skill check to sway the locals they 
might interact with on their journey into supporting the 
Hellbreakers League and Isgeri independence, earning 
them RP. Diplomacy is the default skill to use for these 
checks, but a PC might attempt a Deception check 
to fabricate terrible acts the Chelaxian government 
is planning, a Performance check to entertain (while 
hiding anti-Cheliax or pro-Isger sentiment within the 
performance), or an Isger Lore or Society check to 
discuss the citizens’ everyday problems and how they 
might be improved with a new government. Players 
might even propose other skills. At your discretion, the 
DC might be 1 higher or lower to represent how loyal 
the locals are to Cheliax.
Wolfpoint
The Wolfpoint reserve garrison is just south of the 
Conerica River and was built before the Goblinblood 
Wars to hold about 300 soldiers and officers, mainly 
to protect the waterway and nearby roads from 
bandit activity. The wooden palisade surrounding the 
many barracks was burned to the ground during the 
war but has since been repaired. With the tensions 
and eventual conflict at Breachill, the soldiers that 
were stationed here were reassigned elsewhere within 
Isger, leaving the garrison empty for the past several 
weeks.
As the PCs make their way toward Wolfpoint, 
they begin to hear rumors of increased bandit 
activity in the area from other travelers and farmers. 
They complain that since the soldiers at Wolfpoint 
have been stationed elsewhere, the local sheriff 
has been unable to keep a lid on highway crime. 
Many believe that a group of bandits called the 
Steel Circle has taken over Wolfpoint, but others 
insist that something more sinister now occupies 
the garrison. These people claim to have seen 
goblins within the palisade walls, lighting fires and 
preparing for another war. If pressed, they describe 
small figures with pointy ears that bear only a 
passing resemblance to goblins. In reality, the Steel 
Circle did attempt to make Wolfpoint a new semi-

===== Page 32 =====
31
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
permanent base of operations but was scared off 
by the drude—a malicious nightmare-inducing 
fey that had already taken up residence 
there.
THE STEEL CIRCLE
The PCs might want to learn a little 
more about the Steel Circle before 
heading to Wolfpoint. A PC who 
succeeds at a DC 18 Society check or 
DC 16 Underworld Lore check to Recall 
Knowledge has heard of the bandit gang. 
They are a fairly large and organized 
group of thieves and robbers who operate 
throughout southern Isger. These bandits 
rove about the countryside, not staying in 
a single location long enough for law enforcement to 
track them down. On a critical success, the PC knows 
the type of places—hillside caves, hidden crevices, and 
abandoned farmhouses—the Steel Circle likes to camp 
in, gaining the result of a successful check to Gather 
Information noted below.
A PC who succeeds at a DC 18 Diplomacy check 
to Gather Information learns that the Steel Circle is 
currently camped out in an abandoned farm a mile 
southeast of Wolfpoint. On a critical success, the PC 
also hears that the bandits tried to set up in Wolfpoint, 
but something drove them off.
If the PCs approach the farm, they are spotted 
by well-hidden lookouts, who warn the Steel Circle 
leaders. Several armed bandits go out to meet the PCs 
in the middle of the fallow fields. They are led by Runa 
Bloodhammer (wary female dwarf bandit 4), whose 
first order of business is to let the PCs know that if 
they try anything against her or her people, they’ll be 
dead within seconds. The PCs are outnumbered here, 
sensing a dozen more sets of eyes upon them from the 
nearby barn and farmhouse.
Runa begins the encounter as unfriendly, though a 
PC can change her attitude with a successful DC 17 
Diplomacy check to Make an Impression. If a PC has 
a skill feat that allows them to Make an Impression 
on several people at once (such as Group Impression), 
they gain a +1 circumstance bonus to skill checks to 
change Runa’s attitude. If the PCs have 6 or more 
Reputation Points, they gain a +2 circumstance bonus 
to skill checks to change Runa’s attitude, as the Steel 
Circle are no friends of Cheliax.
Runa is willing to talk with the PCs long enough 
for them to attempt three checks to sway her. She 
asks them their business in the area and tries to 
gauge their feelings about breaking the law without 
broaching the subject directly. If the PCs increase 
Runa’s attitude to friendly, she admits that her gang 
did spend one night camped inside Wolfpoint, but 
they had terrible nightmares. While the bandits are 
hardened criminals, they were too frightened to 
remain in the garrison and set up on this farm. 
Runa snaps her fingers and proposes that if 
the PCs investigate Wolfpoint and remove 
any “curse or creature befouling the 
place,” she’ll have the Steel Circle 
help the Hellbreakers as best 
they can. If Runa’s attitude is 
helpful, she’ll also agree to donate 
some supplies to the effort.
If Runa’s attitude becomes hostile, she 
gives a sharp gesture to her fellow bandits 
and storms off. A volley of arrows rains 
down on the PCs, dealing 2d8+13 piercing damage 
to each of them with a DC 20 basic Reflex save. If 
Runa’s attitude is only indifferent or unfriendly after 
the PCs attempt three checks, she curtly tells the PCs 
to go away, warning them to not approach the farm 
again. If the PCs refuse to leave or later try to return, 
they suffer the bandits’ wrath as if Runa’s attitude is 
hostile.
Reward: For changing Runa’s attitude to friendly or 
helpful, award the PCs 30 XP.
WOLFPOINT PALISADE
LOW 2 AND MODERATE 2
When the PCs explore Wolfpoint, they find it devoid 
of life. It’s been abandoned for several weeks at most, 
but not even mice or stray wolves have attempted to 
reclaim the buildings. Living creatures just seem to 
avoid the place. This is the result of the influence of a 
drude, a shadowy fey creature whose mere presence in 
the area can invoke terrible nightmares. This particular 
drude is drawn to areas where calamity has occurred 
and uses imagery of those events in the dreams they 
cause. The drude is accompanied by several gremlins 
who delight in the chaos.
If the PCs set up camp here, their sleep is plagued 
with nightmares of bloodthirsty goblin hordes 
attacking their position, stabbing and biting them 
with sharp dogslicers and even sharper teeth. A PC 
on watch hears strange noises by the palisade like 
squawking cries and moans. This encounter takes 
place in the middle of the night, in darkness. Sleeping 
PCs likely don’t have torches or other light sources 
lit, so begin this encounter with them extinguished. 
Use the Wolfpoint Palisades map on page 32 for this 
encounter.
Creatures: A small pack of pugwampi gremlins 
have allied with the drude haunting Wolfpoint. They 
attempt to draw any PCs still awake in the night to 
Runa Bloodhammer

===== Page 33 =====
32
the palisade with unusual noises and cries for help, 
then begin peppering anyone who’s drawn close with 
arrows. Each pugwampi flees when reduced to 3 or 
fewer Hit Points, knowing that their leader will finish 
the fight.
PUGWAMPIS (3)	
CREATURE 0
Pathfinder Monster Core 180
Initiative Perception +6
Darkness Rising: When the last pugwampi has been 
slain or driven off, the PCs notice that any shadows 
they are casting begin to shudder and dance as the 
drude approaches. They have 1 round to prepare 
themselves before the drude and their mitflit minions 
appear and attack. These gremlins have been bullied 
by the drude into assisting their plan and fight until 
killed. The drude flees into the darkness if reduced to 
5 or fewer Hit Points.
MITFLITS (2)	
CREATURE –1
Pathfinder Monster Core 180
Initiative Perception +4
DRUDE	
CREATURE 2
Page 231
Initiative Perception +10
Development: Once the drude has been slain or 
routed, the nearby shadows return to normal. The 
PCs can sleep through the rest of the night and report 
their success to Runa Bloodhammer. The Steel Circle 
occupies Wolfpoint over the next few days, agreeing to 
rob only those travelers clearly aligned with Cheliax. 
The PCs gain 1 Reputation Point.
Treasure: If the PCs take the time to search through 
the garrison, they discover a crate with a thorn of 
Milani (page 210) and a lesser silverscrap bomb (page 
209) left behind by the soldiers.
Vordia
During the Goblinblood Wars, Vordia suffered a fair 
amount of damage and many of its people were killed. 
As part of their relief efforts, the Chelaxian government 
sent a contingent of Sisters of the Golden Erinys to 
construct an orphanage in the town that would teach 
the children about the Church of Asmodeus. As a result, 
D5
D5
D6
D6
D3
D3
D4
D4
D2
D2
X
D1
D1
WOLFPOINT PALISADE
WOLFPOINT PALISADE
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
 BRIGHT EMBERS ORPHANAGE
 BRIGHT EMBERS ORPHANAGE

===== Page 34 =====
33
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
many of the residents feel a fair amount of goodwill 
toward Cheliax. When you attempt a flat check if the 
PCs openly discuss their allegiance to the Hellbreakers 
League (page 29), roll twice and take the worse result.
 A bustling town of several hundred people, Vordia doesn’t 
look much different from any other small settlement in the 
Isgeri countryside. The one detail that makes it stand out 
is the dozens of flags bearing either the national symbol 
of Cheliax or the religious symbol of Asmodeus flying atop 
nearly every building or from nearly every window. Despite 
this (or perhaps because of it), the residents look happy as 
they go about their day.
The town decorations should hint to the players 
that they need to keep a low profile here. They might 
not want to stay long, but it’s their mission to at least 
try to quietly sway the populace. It will benefit them to 
listen and observe to see if the residents have any issues 
with the Chelaxian government that could be a crack 
in the pleasantly maintained facade. If they spend time 
Gathering Information (DC 16), they quickly learn 
that most townspeople are concerned about the nuns 
who run the Bright Embers Orphanage. Ever since the 
town was visited by a strange Hellknight a few weeks 
ago, the nuns haven’t been seen much.
 If the PCs want to learn more about this occurrence, 
one of them must attempt a DC 16 Diplomacy check 
to Gather Information or a DC 14 Scribing Lore or 
Society check to look into the town’s public records. 
On a successful Diplomacy check, the PC learns 
that two nights ago, a group of local teens dared 
one another to sneak into the seemingly abandoned 
orphanage and were frightened off by strange noises 
coming from the second floor. On a successful Scribing 
Lore or Society check, the PC finds very recent records 
of Bright Embers’ two current orphan charges both 
finding families in neighboring towns the day after the 
Hellknight’s visit, but the names of these families are 
oddly unreadable. By simply asking around, the PCs 
learn the location of the orphanage and that it is run 
by the Sisterhood of the Golden Erinys, for whom the 
villagers have nothing but kind words.
GAINING REPUTATION POINTS
While the PCs are in Vordia, they can attempt to gain 
Reputation Points to bolster local opinion about the 
Hellbreakers League. They can, of course, use the 
organization’s name, as long as they don’t give away 
the fact that they are allied with it. With clever or fiery 
rhetoric, cautionary tales about the “true” Cheliax, or 
explanations of the good the League has accomplished, 
a PC can attempt a DC 18 Deception, Diplomacy, 
Performance, or Society check. If the PCs disparage 
the Sisterhood of the Golden Erinys without proof, 
they take a –1 circumstance penalty to this check. Use 
the same degrees of success for Countryside Travel 
(page 30).
D. BRIGHT EMBERS ORPHANAGE
The Sisterhood of the Golden Erinys ran the Bright 
Embers Orphanage for nearly two decades, starting 
by taking in orphans of the Goblinblood Wars and 
preparing them to live in a country governed by the 
rule of Asmodeus. This entailed teaching the children 
pro-Cheliax propaganda and attempting to instill 
a respect for law and order by emphasizing that the 
chaos loved by goblinkind got their parents killed, 
conveniently not mentioning that many of the war’s 
hobgoblin commanders could be as strict as some 
Hellknight orders.
This constant emotional barrage on the children’s 
minds over the years has left a psychic imprint on the 
building, causing unusual phenomena to occur within. 
Former residents have spoken about seeing doors 
slamming from across the room, hearing agonized 
cries of terror coming from the walls, feeling like 
someone unseen is watching, and so on. The Sisters 
would explain these occurrences as pranks or wild 
imaginings, and their iron will stopped the orphanage 
from becoming fully haunted. That ended with the 
arrival of Viro Ahala.
When Viro convinced Sister Endreah to help him 
with his plan, her fellow nuns went with her, leaving 
the orphanage with no staff. With no more nuns 
in Bright Embers to suppress the building’s occult 
resonance, a handful of unstable spirits have formed 
from the emotional fallout of the past decades.
As the orphanage is the only lead the PCs have to 
how the Sisters of the Golden Erinys in Vordia are 
connected to the mystery Hellknight, they’ll need 
to explore the building to find out more. If the PCs 
heard the story of the local teens, their curiosity might 
be piqued. Entering the haunted orphanage isn’t 
necessary to further the League’s reputation in Vordia, 
but they might want to return once they start hearing 
about how the strange occurrences in other villages 
might be related to the sisterhood.
D1. Orphanage Yard
Bright Embers is near the eastern outskirts of the 
town. When the PCs approach the building, read or 
paraphrase the following.
A walled yard surrounds a rectangular two-story building 
whose angles seem slightly off, as if the structure were

===== Page 35 =====
34
hunched in on itself. Curtains have been drawn in all the 
windows, but the front door is slightly ajar, occasionally 
banging against its frame 
with each stray breeze. A few 
stunted trees bare of leaves 
stand watch over patches 
of dying grass and a lone 
seesaw whose red paint is 
chipped and faded. A closed 
wrought-iron gate at the end 
of a stone walkway leading 
to the building features a 
metal 
plaque 
that 
reads 
“Bright Embers Orphanage, 
established 4701 ar.”
Children used to play in this yard, 
their laughter ringing out to the nearby street, but 
now it is empty and silent. As the group approaches 
the front door, a PC who succeeds at a DC 18 
Perception check notices the curtains twitch in one 
of the upstairs rooms (area D5). A PC who examines 
the yard and succeeds at a DC 16 Occultism check 
can sense that the state of decay the trees, grass, 
and everything else is in has been supernaturally 
accelerated.
D2. Entry Hall
A wide hall runs through the building. The floor is scuffed, 
and all the interior doors hang crookedly from their hinges. 
A wide staircase leads up to the second floor.
Similar to the deterioration of the front yard, the 
unkempt state of the building has been hastened by 
the now-rampant spiritual energy. The PCs hear 
footsteps all around them as if children were still 
running around. Through the open doors, the party 
can see a dining hall and kitchen to the east and a 
recreation room to the west.
D3. Dining Hall	
Trivial 2
This room features two table sets, one a bit smaller than 
the other, with accompanying small chairs to accommodate 
children. While the larger table has nothing on it, the 
smaller table is set with four plates but no utensils.
Hazard: The strict discipline of the sisterhood meant 
that meals were sedate affairs where no orphan was 
permitted to act up. This repression steeped into the 
furniture and is eager to be released now that the nuns 
have vacated. A spectral food fight breaks out when 
any creature gets close to the kids’ table (as marked 
on the map).
FOOD FIGHT	
HAZARD 2
COMPLEX
HAUNT
Stealth +8 (trained)
Description 
Ghostly 
food 
appears on cracked plates as 
they float above the table. 
The faint outline of children 
can occasionally be seen as 
the ectoplasmic food is flung 
throughout the room.
Disable DC 17 Occultism (trained) 
to weaken the spiritual energy in 
the room, DC 18 Acrobatics (trained) 
to pluck a floating plate out of the air, or DC 
19 Intimidation (trained) to reprimand one of the ghostly 
children for their poor behavior; each successful check 
disables one of four plates
AC 18; Fort +6, Ref +10
Hardness 5 (plate); HP 10 per plate; Immunities object 
immunities, precision damage
Dinner Bell [reaction] (auditory, occult, sonic) Trigger A creature 
moves adjacent to the set table; Effect A loud phantom 
dinner bell rings before the plates begin to tremble and 
hover. Each creature in the room takes 2d6+2 sonic 
damage (DC 17 basic Fortitude save). The haunt then 
rolls initiative.
Routine (4 actions) For each plate disabled or destroyed, 
the haunt has 1 fewer action. On each action, spectral 
food is flung off a plate at a different living creature in 
the room. This ranged Strike doesn’t provoke reactions. 
A creature critically hit by a flung food Strike is also 
dazzled for 1 round.
Ranged flung food +11 (occult, spirit), Damage 1d10+4 
spirit; no range increment or multiple attack penalty
Reset The haunt deactivates 1 minute after all creatures 
leave the room or after all four plates are destroyed. 
After 1 hour, if at least one plate remains, the haunt 
reactivates. If disabled, the haunt resets after 1 day 
and the plates magically reassemble. The haunt is 
permanently destroyed when the attic whisperer in area 
D5 is destroyed.
D4. Play Room	
Low 2
Faded murals of friendly looking devils are painted across 
the walls of this playroom, with nuns of Asmodeus holding 
hands with children as their deity smiles down upon them. 
Faces that would normally be violent or gruesome in any 
other scene are depicted as playful and kind. The room is 
empty save for a dusty toy box in the center.
Playroom Mural

===== Page 36 =====
35
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
The Sisters understood that structured play is 
important to developing minds and allowed the 
orphans to indulge their childish whims here.
Hazard: Despite this being a playroom for young 
children, rambunctiousness was never permitted. A 
child who pushed another down or pulled their hair 
was severely reprimanded (out of sight of the other 
orphans, of course). The wasted potential enjoyment 
of blocks, dominoes, jacks, and so forth has infused 
the room’s toy box, making it a powder keg of “fun” 
ready to explode in the PCs’ faces when they explore 
this room.
PLAY TIME	
HAZARD 3
COMPLEX
HAUNT
Stealth +13 (trained)
Description An old, dusty toy box creaks open and 
forcefully expels a series of cracked and broken toys.
Disable DC 19 Occultism (trained) to exorcise the spirits 
of the toy box, DC 20 Athletics (trained) to hold the toy 
box closed momentarily, or DC 21 Diplomacy (trained) 
to convince the spirits that play time is over; three total 
success are required to disable the haunt
AC 16; Fort +12, Ref +7
Hardness 10 (toy box); HP 45; Immunities critical hits, 
object immunities, precision damage
Terrifying Toy Box [reaction] (emotion, fear, mental, occult, visual) 
Trigger A creature approaches within 10 feet of the toy 
box; Effect The toy box lid slowly opens with a groan, 
revealing a yawning chasm into nothingness. Each 
creature who can see the toy box must attempt a DC 23 
Will save. The haunt then rolls initiative.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is frightened 1.
Failure The creature is frightened 2 and can’t reduce its 
frightened condition below 1 while the haunt is active.
Critical Failure As failure, but frightened 4.
Routine (1 action) The toy box belches forth a 15-foot cone 
of toys, dealing 3d8 bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing 
damage (chosen randomly each time) with a DC 20 basic 
Reflex save.
Reset The haunt deactivates 1 minute after all creatures 
leave the room or if the toy box is destroyed. After 1 
hour, if the toy box remains, the haunt reactivates. 
If disabled, the haunt resets after 1 day. The haunt is 
permanently destroyed when the attic whisperer in area 
D5 is destroyed.
D5. Orphans’ Bedroom	
Severe 2
Two rows of small, decrepit beds line the walls of this room. 
Tattered blankets are neatly draped across the beds, and 
each bed has a small set of drawers next to it, many of 
which hang open and empty. A canine skull sits on one bed, 
next to a ratty stuffed bear.
There’s room for 12 orphans to sleep communally 
here. The orphanage hasn’t been at full capacity since 
the first few years after it was built, so often, two or 
three orphans would have this room to themselves. 
Thanks to the occult energy engulfing the building, it 
doesn’t look like anyone has slept here for years.
Hazard: The Sisters made sure that all orphans had 
the same bedtime, regardless of age. Older children 
would sometimes lie in their beds in the dark, thinking 
about new families or soothing the younger orphans 
to sleep. This unique flavor of quiet despair created 
this darkness-inducing haunt.
Creatures: The general tenor of the psychic energy in 
the orphanage has created an undead creature usually 
associated with forgotten and forlorn children, known 
as an attic whisperer. When the haunt rolls initiative, 
the canine skull on one of the beds rises up to attach 
to the rotting teddy bear. The creature is wrapped in 
a tattered sheet and begins echoing the cries of many 
of the orphans who have since grown up. This attic 
whisperer fights until destroyed.
LIGHTS OUT	
HAZARD 2
COMPLEX
HAUNT
Stealth DC +11 (trained)
Description Patches of darkness envelop the rickety beds 
in this room, from which can be heard the sounds of 
gentle snoring from children.
Disable DC 18 Occultism (trained) to ward off the darkness 
or DC 19 Deception or Performance (trained) to pretend 
to be asleep; two total success are required to disable 
the haunt
Lullaby and Good Night [reaction] (auditory, incapacitation, mental, 
occult, sleep) Trigger At least two living creatures enter 
the room; Effect The sounds of a soothing lullaby fill the 
air. All living creatures in the room must attempt a DC 22 
Will save. The haunt then rolls initiative.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature gets slightly drowsy, taking a –1 
status penalty to Perception checks for 1 round.
Failure The creature briefly nods off. They are slowed 1 
and can’t use reactions for 1 round after that.
Critical Failure As failure, but slowed 2.
Routine (1 action; darkness, occult) The haunt randomly 
chooses 1 living creature that it hadn’t engulfed in 
darkness the previous round. Supernatural darkness 
wells over that creature, who must attempt a DC 18 Will 
save. On a failure, that creature is engulfed in a 5-foot 
emanation of darkness centered on them and is blinded 
for 1 round. Any creatures in the emanation must

===== Page 37 =====
36
attempt their own Will save or become blinded as well. 
Any non-magical light sources and magical light of 1st 
rank or lower the primary creature is holding or wearing 
cease to give off light for that duration.
Reset The haunt deactivates 1 minute after all living 
creatures leave the room but resets immediately 
thereafter. If disabled, the haunt 
resets after 1 day. The haunt is 
permanently destroyed when the 
attic whisperer here is destroyed.
ATTIC WHISPERER
CREATURE 4
Pathfinder Monster Core 2 47
Initiative Perception +10
This Orphanage is Clean: With the 
defeat of the attic whisperer, the haunts in 
the orphanage are permanently destroyed, and 
the doors to area D6 fly open with a loud bang.
D6. Nuns’ Quarters
Until the attic whisperer in area D5 is defeated, 
the doors to this portion of the orphanage remain 
stubbornly closed. Any damage dealt to them is 
repaired almost instantly, making them impossible to 
break down. Attempts to use fire or acid to destroy 
the door result in the PC having it supernaturally 
bounced back at them, forcing them to attempt a 
DC 18 Reflex save and take 1d4 of the appropriate 
damage on a failure. Such attempts raise the ire of the 
attic whisperer in area D5, who begins to wail and 
cry to draw the PCs away from the doors. A PC who 
succeeds at a DC 17 Occultism or Religion check can 
sense that a supernatural force (the attic whisperer) is 
keeping the doors shut.
When the PCs are able to access the area, read or 
paraphrase the following.
Several sparse rooms line the hallway here, each containing 
nothing more than a simple wooden cot and a padded beam 
that is only a few inches off the ground. A red pentagram is 
painted on each wall above the beam.
These are the personal rooms of the sisters who 
ran this orphanage, though they show little of any 
inhabitants’ personality. A PC who succeeds at a DC 
13 Religion check to Recall Knowledge knows the red 
pentagram is the symbol of Asmodeus and that the 
nuns would use the beam to kneel in supplication for 
regular prayers to the Lord of Hell.
A PC who searches these rooms and succeeds at 
a DC 15 Perception check finds a crumpled piece of 
parchment under one of the cots. It appears to be a 
draft of a letter to another sister in an unnamed town, 
explaining how these sisters are going to a place called 
the Lucent Mission for an important task that “will 
bring much glory to Asmodeus.” The final line 
explains that the recipient is being sent 
Bright Embers’ remaining orphans 
before ending in a large ink spill. 
If the PCs show the authorities 
this evidence, none of them know 
where the Lucent Mission is, but 
they thank the PCs for informing 
them of the true fate of the 
remaining orphans; the PCs gain 
1 Reputation Point.
Treasure: Left behind in one 
room is an unholy text about the 
worship of Asmodeus worth 50 gp and 
a neatly folded robes of the Erinys (page 212).
Umok
Umok was founded by gnomes several centuries 
ago as a peaceful haven for those looking to live in 
harmony with the nearby Chitterwood. Several times 
over the years, the gnome residents clashed with 
nearby goblin camps over local resources, namely 
game and wood. These conflicts came to an ugly 
head during the Goblinblood Wars, when hobgoblins 
tried to burn Umok to the ground. A visiting gnome 
champion of Cayden Cailean named Loriwyse 
Marblemug rallied the town to push back against the 
hobgoblin raiders, saving everyone. Since then, fire has 
been outlawed within 500 yards of Umok’s perimeter; 
the punishment is usually banishment, but some past 
goblin perpetrators have been executed.
The citizens of Umok use alchemy and magic to 
heat their food and light their town. They also employ 
domesticated woodland creatures to act as guards and 
lookouts in and around the town. If these animals see 
someone approaching with an open flame, they are 
trained to return to town to warn the gnomes in charge. 
Some of the larger creatures, such as wolves, try to scare 
off any such intruders, to varying degrees of success.
As the PCs approach Umok by road, they spot 
at about 500 yards from town a sign that reads in 
Common and Gnomish, “Now Entering the Umok 
Fire-Free Zone. Please Extinguish All Flames.” A 
cartoonish illustration of a fire with a big, black X 
across it has been painted underneath. Many such 
signs are around Umok, even in the surrounding 
woods. If the PCs haven’t already attempted a skill 
check to Recall Knowledge about the town, they 
might want to do so now to learn a little about the 
history behind this warning.
Magic Stove

===== Page 38 =====
37
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
It is assumed that the PCs comply with the sign, 
though if they are traveling by day, they have no need 
of torches to light their way. If they don’t comply and 
approach the town carrying fire, a random PC spots a 
pair of rabbits bolting in Umok’s direction out of the 
corner of their eye. As a result of the rabbits’ warning, 
the PCs take a –2 circumstance penalty to their 
skill checks to influence the town’s people and gain 
Reputation Points, regardless of their current RP total.
When the PCs get within sight of the town, read or 
paraphrase the following.
A quaint town of cottages with peaked roofs and walls 
covered in ivy becomes visible, nestled between the 
woods and the hills. Orbs of light, twinkling in every 
color imaginable, hang in the air above each street corner. 
Smiling gnomes wave from porches and stoops, their 
clothing as brightly colored as the lights. Occasionally, a 
family of deer or a grumpy-looking badger wanders by, 
though the gnomes don’t find this at all unusual. Proud 
Isgeri boarhounds pant happily as they watch passersby, 
sometimes rolling onto their backs in hopes of a belly rub.
The town is welcome to outsiders, provided they aren’t 
carrying open flames. If the PCs discretely ask around, 
they learn that most Umok residents are neutral about 
Cheliax. The village is far enough away from most of 
Isger’s major sites that they are left to themselves. If they 
can help it, they’d rather not grab Cheliax’s attention 
with talk of rebellion. Most of the townspeople are 
more concerned about the rash of small fires that have 
been breaking out in the woods southwest of town over 
the past few weeks. Their animal-based early warning 
system has helped them ensure the fires haven’t spread, 
but they haven’t caught the perpetrator. The prevailing 
opinion around town is that goblins or hobgoblins are 
to blame. If any PC is of goblin or hobgoblin ancestry, 
the gnomes of Umok might unfairly treat them with 
suspicion.
The resident gnomes can point the PCs in the 
direction of these fires, but before they can leave town, 
there is a commotion: a badly burned goblin stumbles 
down the main street and collapses near the PCs.
A VICTIM OF HAPPENSTANCE
This unfortunate goblin is named Grizzo (hapless 
female goblin forager 1). She lives within the 
Chitterwood with her small family who aren’t a part of 
any major goblin settlement. They scrounge for berries 
and mushrooms and occasionally catch fish. Rarely do 
they interact with others outside of the forest. Grizzo 
was unknowingly rooting around the area of the 
woods near the previous fires and was attacked by the 
two hell hounds who were the fire’s cause (see below). 
She was burned by their hellfire breath but barely 
managed to escape, fleeing in the direction of town.
When Grizzo collapses in front of the PCs, she is 
unconscious with 0 Hit Points. A PC can Treat her 
Wounds, bandaging the burns and perhaps applying a 
topical salve, to help her regain consciousness. That PC 
can also attempt a DC 16 Medicine check, determining 
on a success that her burns were caused by a sustained 
direct blast of fire, perhaps from a magic spell or a 
creature that can breathe flames, rather than exposure 
to the flames of something like a forest fire.
Meanwhile, the other PCs see that gnomes are 
beginning to gather—at a safe distance—curious about 
Grizzo’s presence. Some of the gnomes begin to mutter 
accusations that she must be responsible for the recent 
fires. It isn’t too long before Ioan Marblemug (steadfast 
male gnome official 2), the town’s captain of the 
guard and descendant of Umok’s historical champion, 
approaches to assess the situation. He hears what his 
fellow citizens are saying but waits until it’s clear that 
Grizzo isn’t going to die before telling the PCs that 
“she’s got to go.” It’s clear that Ioan believes what the 
other gnomes believe about Grizzo. He explains that 
the punishment for violating Umok’s most important 
law is banishment.
When Grizzo regains consciousness, she begins 
blubbering in fear. A PC who succeeds at DC 17 
Diplomacy check calms her down enough for her to 
mutter the phrase “fire dog” over and over again. It is 
unfortunately not enough information for the PCs to 
be able to Recall Knowledge, but a PC can try to argue 
that Grizzo’s condition and her fear means that she 
likely didn’t set the fires. Getting Ioan to agree requires 
a DC 18 Diplomacy or Intimidation check or a DC 
16 Legal Lore check. On a success, Ioan begrudgingly 
allows Grizzo to remain with the town doctor while 
the PCs investigate the fires. If a PC critically fails this 
check, Ioan is adamant that Grizzo be taken out of 
Umok immediately and firmly suggests that the PCs be 
the ones to do so.
GAINING REPUTATION POINTS
While the PCs are in Umok, they can attempt to 
gain Reputation Points to bolster the townspeople’s 
opinions about the Hellbreakers League. With 
disparaging remarks about the strict order imposed 
by the Chelaxian government (and its Hellknight 
lackeys), rightful connections between devils and fire, 
or honest talk about the importance of freedom and 
nature, a PC can attempt a DC 18 Diplomacy, Nature, 
Performance, or Religion check. Use the same degrees 
of success for Countryside Travel (page 30).

===== Page 39 =====
38
FIRE!	
LOW 2
As the PCs enter the outskirts of the Chitterwood 
to investigate the fires, they spot a rising plume of 
smoke in the distance. Rushing in that direction, they 
are faced with the beginnings of a brush fire started 
by the hell hounds that could potentially be quite 
devastating. They’ll need to extinguish the flames 
before the situation grows out of control. If Grizzo 
is with the PCs, she cowers in fear of the flames and 
promptly passes out again.
This encounter uses a modified version of the 
Victory Point subsystem (GM Core 184), in which the 
PCs start with 5 Victory Points and must accumulate 
10 total Victory Points. At the end of each phase, 
after every PC has acted, they automatically lose 1 
Victory Point to represent the encroaching fire. If 
the PCs ever have 0 Victory Points, the fire can’t be 
contained (see failure below).
To put out a portion of the fire, a PC can attempt 
a DC 15 Forest Lore or DC 17 Nature or Survival 
check, gaining 1 Victory Point on a success (or 2 on a 
critical success, but losing 1 Victory Point on a critical 
failure). A spell or ability that creates at least 1 gallon 
of water automatically grants 1 Victory Point. Other 
abilities that control fire or starve a fire of oxygen can 
do the same at your discretion. A PC can also attempt 
a DC 18 Athletics check to dig part of a trench to act 
as a firebreak; successfully doing so doesn’t gain a 
Victory Point but might stop the fire from spreading. 
At the end of a phase in which a PC successfully does 
this, attempt a DC 15 flat check. On a success, the 
PCs don’t lose 1 Victory Point from the fire. If two or 
more PCs create a firebreak in the same phase, reduce 
the DC of the flat check to 11.
Success: The PCs put out the fire before it causes 
too much damage. The gnomes are grateful and the 
PCs earn 1 Reputation Point.
Failure: The fire rages out of control. Each PC 
takes 4d6 fire damage (DC 16 basic Reflex save) as 
they flee the scene. Eventually, the citizens of Umok 
and their animal friends are able to rally to put out 
the fire before it reaches town. The hell hounds are 
emboldened by the flames and gain a +2 circumstance 
bonus to their initiative rolls in the charred wood 
(page 39), and the PCs take a –1 circumstance bonus 
to skill checks to gain Reputation Points in Umok.
E2
E2
E1
E1
CHARRED WOOD
CHARRED WOOD
MOSSY RAVINE
MOSSY RAVINE
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 40 =====
39
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Reward: For putting out the forest fire, award the 
PCs 60 XP.
CHARRED WOOD	
MODERATE 2
A PC trained in Nature or Survival can trace the 
recent fire to its source, an area of the forest that 
has been almost completely turned to ash. Several 
days ago, Viro Ahala and some Sisters of the Golden 
Erinys performed a lesser version of the ritual he is 
attempting in Chapter 3, summoning a pair of hell 
hounds that has stalked the woods since. Use the 
Charred Wood map on page 38 for this encounter.
The trees have been burned down to stumps, and the 
ground is covered in charred grass in a circular area of 
the woods about one hundred feet in diameter. The heat 
has long since dissipated, but the smell of smoke remains.
Creatures: Two hell hounds, weak from their 
relatively recent summoning, consider this circle their 
lair in the mortal Universe and range out from here 
to start fires in the woods. The fiendish beasts attack 
the PCs as soon as they enter the area and fight until 
killed. If Grizzo is with the PCs, she confirms that 
these are the creatures who attacked her before she 
hides behind a burned stump.
WEAK HELL HOUNDS (2)	
CREATURE 2
Pathfinder Monster Core 7, 194
Initiative Perception +7
Presenting Evidence: If the PCs show the bodies 
of the hell hounds to Ioan Marblemug, he convinces 
the rest of Umok that the threat has been handled. 
This exonerates Grizzo, who is grateful to the PCs for 
their help. The PCs gain 1 Reputation Point. Grizzo 
is allowed to recuperate in Umok for a few more 
days before returning to her goblin friends in the 
Chitterwood. Alternatively, the PCs can bring Grizzo 
with them to Stumpfield if they haven’t yet been to 
that location.
Treasure: For solving the mystery of the Umok 
fires, Ioan Marblemug gives the PCs a pair of bracers 
of missile deflection that has been in his family for 
generations, as well as 10 gp.
Stumpfield
Before the Goblinblood Wars, the Chitterwood was 
several dozen acres larger than it is today. Those 
missing trees were either cut down or burned by the 
Isgeri military to deprive the attacking goblins of 
their homes. The ancient forest is slowly beginning 
to reclaim this land, but it will be decades or even 
a century before the new trees mature and it comes 
close to its previous size.
One section of the northern edge of the forest was 
cut down to provide lumber to expand the burgeoning 
town of Fernsby. Recently, the remaining field of 
stumps has become the home of a collective of artists 
of both human and goblin ancestries.
This artist’s colony was established by Erk 
Oilfingers (visionary male goblin painter 1) and Jett 
Saldath (focused nonbinary human sculptor 1) after 
they met and formed a fast friendship trying to capture 
the image of the same twisted tree in their respective 
mediums. By inviting artists of all kinds to live and 
work in their new town, the two hoped it would foster 
better relations between their two ancestries. They 
have yet to change the world, or even the country, 
but in the 18 months since Stumpfield was founded, 
it has built a fascinating and supportive community. 
However, there has been some friction with the 
neighboring conservative town of Fernsby, which has 
been inflamed by the actions of the gobmob snake 
Hissbite and their lackeys (page 40).
When the PCs approach Stumpfield, read or 
paraphrase the following.
The town ahead is a unique collection of homes built 
onto the sides of wagons and semi-permanent tents, 
creating an atmosphere more like a traveling festival 
than a structured settlement. Several dozen residents—
all either goblin or human—are gathered in the center 
of town around an object made of rope and wicker that 
resembles a four-legged animal. In turn, each person 
approaches the sculpture and adds something to it: a 
lump of clay to form an ear, several splashes of paint 
along the hide, or a series of colorful scarves wrapped 
around the neck. After each addition, the others 
gathered murmur in delight and approval.
The PCs arrive during Stumpfield’s monthly 
practice of “cooperative art,” where the whole town 
comes together to create something—usually a 
sculpture or a painting, but other mediums are often 
involved. A few finished cooperative art pieces can 
be found throughout the town, and each is similarly 
chaotic but nonetheless compelling. When the PCs 
make themselves known, Erk breaks off from the 
assembled townspeople, introduces himself, and 
welcomes the PCs to town. He then introduces the 
party to the other artists and says, “Since we have 
guests, let’s see if they have anything they want to 
add to this month’s collective piece…” The crowd 
nods in agreement and a few of them even clap in 
encouragement.

===== Page 41 =====
40
Each of the PCs can add something to the 
sculpture, whether from their own supplies or from 
the collections of art supplies strewn about the town 
center. When they do so, they should attempt a DC 
16 Art Lore or Performance check; you can allow 
for other skills if the players make good cases for 
them. On a failure, the Stumpfield artists show only 
mild appreciation, but on a success, a few of them 
smile and say something like “Of course, just what 
it needed!” On a critical success, the townspeople 
give a hearty cheer. If at least one character succeeds, 
the PCs gain a +1 circumstance bonus to gaining RP 
in Stumpfield (+2 circumstance bonus if at least one 
character critically succeeded).
Over the next hour, the town finishes the sculpture 
and then celebrates into the night. The PCs can meet 
as many of the artists as they like, including Jett, 
Stumpfield’s other founder. They share a bottle of wine 
with the PCs, and someone cooks a passable stew in a 
large cauldron that the whole town partakes of, with 
a random assortment of ingredients being thrown in. 
If the PCs discuss recent events in Isger (such as the 
Battle of Hellknight Hill) with anyone or ask about 
their opinion of Cheliax, most townspeople aren’t 
overly concerned. A few want to show the PCs their 
latest piece of art that expresses their views on the 
subject, but overall the artists don’t want to worry 
about the “outside world.”
However, later in the evening, Erk and Jett pull 
the PCs aside to explain a small problem the town 
is having. People are being attacked in the nearby 
town of Fernsby, and the perpetrators are rumored 
to be several goblins. Jett nervously explains that the 
villagers of Fernsby are convinced that Stumpfield is 
involved in these attacks and are threatening to stop 
selling them food and other goods. Erk insists that no 
Stumpfield goblins are as violent as Fernsby claims. 
The two ask the PCs, as a neutral party, to talk to the 
people of Fernsby and convince them not to cut off 
trade with Stumpfield.
Any Stumpfield resident can point the PCs in the 
direction of Fernsby, which is an uneventful 2-hour 
walk to the northeast.
GAINING REPUTATION POINTS
While the PCs are in Stumpfield, they can attempt to 
gain Reputation Points to bolster the artists’ opinions 
about the Hellbreakers League. With compliments 
of residents’ art, discussions of Chelaxian art and 
architectural styles, or an interpretive dance about the 
evils of imperialism, a PC can attempt a DC 18 Art 
Lore, Diplomacy, Performance, or Society check. Use 
the same rules as Countryside Travel (page 30).
E. FERNSBY
Farms and orchards surround this quaint village. Thatched-
roof cottages line the streets within the settlement proper, 
many with porches decorated with pots of flowers. In the 
center of town, a large oak tree grows in a small village 
green that has several benches. A few of the flowerbeds 
and shrubs on the green show recent signs of being 
unceremoniously dug up and destroyed.
The people of Fernsby are polite but standoffish 
toward strangers, including the PCs. If the PCs ask 
around about the recent attacks, they learn that the 
stories have been blown a little out of proportion. No 
one has been attacked, but vandals have defaced the 
village green time and again over the past two weeks. 
Many residents are fervent about the fact that the space 
is Fernsby’s pride and joy. A PC who succeeds at a DC 
15 Diplomacy check to Gather Information learns that 
a few people are convinced they saw goblins on the 
green the same nights as each incident.
If a PC inspects the latest desecration of the flowers 
and shrubs and succeeds at a DC 17 Perception or 
Survival check, they don’t spot any footprints—goblin 
or otherwise—in the churned up dirt, only a series of 
sinuous impressions. On a critical success, they also 
find a torn leaf with two identical punctures in it, as 
if from a set of fangs. With this information, a PC 
who succeeds at DC 16 Nature check can deduce that 
several large snakes recently made their way across 
the grass. No one in Fernsby has seen these snakes or 
understands why they would have snakes coming into 
their town and not attacking any people or animals.
A PC who succeeds at a DC 18 Diplomacy or 
Society check is approached by a resident named Lilli 
who tells them that during a recent walk through the 
woods, she heard a strange hissing coming up from a 
ravine. Lilli can give the PCs directions to this ravine 
(area E1). Alternatively, a PC who succeeds at a DC 18 
Survival check to Track can spot enough impressions 
to follow them to the same ravine. The PCs can also 
wait until nightfall to see if the snakes return; if they 
do so, each PC should attempt a DC 16 Stealth check 
to Hide. If more than half of them succeed, they can 
catch the goblin snakes from area E1 unaware in the 
village green (if a map is needed, one of a field or 
clearing works well). If half of them fail, the goblin 
snakes spot them and flee back to area E1, but the PCs 
can easily give chase to encounter them in the ravine.
E1. Mossy Ravine
Low 2
This crack in the earth has been here on the outskirts

===== Page 42 =====
41
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
of the Chitterwood for centuries, likely the result of an 
ancient quake or constant erosion over the long years. 
Bright green moss lines the walls of the ravine as 
it gently descends forty feet into the ground.
The descent isn’t steep enough to 
cause problems, though the PCs 
dislodge the occasional loose pebble 
as they traverse the ravine. This 
ravine is the lair of Hissbite (scheming 
genderless gobmob snake 4), who 
has been watching Stumpfield since its 
founding and grew increasingly jealous 
and bitter about the relationship Stumpfield 
goblins have with humans. After months 
of spying and recruiting a pair of like-
minded goblin snakes, Hissbite recently 
began their plan of poisoning Fernsby against 
Stumpfield with targeted acts of midnight vandalism. 
Hissbite told their lackeys to show only their heads, 
knowing that they could be mistaken for goblins in 
the dark. Use the Mossy Ravine map on page 38 for 
these encounters.
Creatures: A pair of goblin snakes lounge here 
unless chased by the PCs. They raise their goblin heads 
and hiss out a warning in Goblin for the PCs to stay 
out of their territory. They hardly give the PCs time 
to respond before they attack. Each goblin snake flees 
if reduced to 5 Hit Points or fewer; they either go to 
Hissbite’s side deeper in the ravine or out into the 
forest, depending on which direction seems the most 
favorable for escape.
GOBLIN SNAKES (2)	
CREATURE 1
Pathfinder Monster Core 2 168
Initiative Perception +6
E2. Sheltered Overhang	
Severe 2
A stone outcropping hangs over the mouth of the ravine, 
shading it from the sun and making it difficult to spot from 
the surface. A small pool of brackish rainwater occupies 
the far end of the ravine, surrounded by a dozen skeletons 
of rats, rabbits, and other small wildlife.
The walls of the ravine are 20 feet high here, and 
the area is in dim light, thanks to the shadow cast by 
the rocky overhang. The pool of water is only a few 
inches deep and looks stagnant. If anyone dares drink 
the water, it tastes foul and musty.
Creatures: When the PCs arrive, Hissbite knows 
that their plans have been foiled and immediately 
attacks. Hissbite keeps a pair of venomous vipers as 
pets, and the loyal snakes defend Hissbite to the death. 
The gobmob snake fights until reduced to 10 or fewer 
Hit Points, at which point they surrender. If the PCs 
allow them to live, Hissbite whines an apology 
for their actions and promises never to trouble 
anyone again. If the PCs haven’t yet been to 
Umok, Hissbite warns about some “real bad 
dogs” in that area.
VIPERS (2)	
CREATURE –1
Pathfinder Monster Core 316
Initiative Perception +5
HISSBITE	
CREATURE 4
Gobmob snake (Pathfinder Monster Core 2 
168)
Initiative Perception +10
Development: The PCs likely kill at least one goblin 
snake or Hissbite. Bringing this corpse back to Fernsby 
helps the PCs prove that no actual goblins, especially 
those from Stumpfield, were responsible for the 
vandalism. Alternatively, the PCs might put Hissbite 
into custody and bring the creature to Fernsby’s 
officials to face punishment. Either outcome gains the 
PCs 1 Reputation Point.
Treasure: Hissbite’s lair holds a pair of lesser 
soothing tonics (Treasure Vault 60) stolen from 
Stumpfield. As thanks for uncovering the truth, the 
citizens of Fernsby give the PCs a runestone with a 
+1 weapon potency rune while the grateful goblins of 
Stumpfield gift the PCs a lesser healing potion.
A Repentant Sister
After Vordia’s Sisters of the Golden Erinys agreed to 
help Viro Ahala and took up residence in the Lucent 
Mission to uncover its secrets, one of them began to 
have doubts about the supposed Hellknight. Sister 
Sylve (inquisitive female human novitiate 1) kept a 
close eye on Viro as he scoured the mission’s archives, 
suspecting that he was an impostor who had not 
actually gone through the full Hellknight initiation 
ceremony. A few cleverly worded questions later, her 
suspicions were confirmed. However, before she could 
approach her superior, Sister Endreah, with proof, Viro 
found the ritual he was looking for and set back out 
into Isger to find the perfect place to enact it. Realizing 
she couldn’t confront him through proper channels, 
Sylve also slipped out of the mission to follow him, but 
was unable to pick up his trail. She’s been looking for 
other ways to deal with him since then.
When the PCs reach 10 Reputation Points for the 
first time, Sister Sylve hears of their activities in the 
Fernsby Evidence

===== Page 43 =====
42
area and seeks them out. She approaches them as 
they’re traveling or as they’re recuperating in their 
latest location for at least a day. Read or paraphrase 
the following.
A young woman wearing a red habit emblazoned with the 
symbol of a five-pointed star in golden thread approaches. 
From her posture, she seems like a tense coil ready to 
spring, but her face is devoid of any emotion. She holds up 
a hand in greeting, revealing a missing ring finger.
“Pardon me, I don’t wish to alarm,” she says. “My name 
is Sister Sylve of the Golden Erinys. Perhaps you’ve heard 
of our order? I’m aware that you may think of us as the 
enemy in your campaign to ‘free Isger,’ but you must listen 
to me. There is a dissembler named Viro Ahala falsely 
calling himself a Hellknight who has deceived my sisters. 
He took advantage of our resources to find a ritual that 
will summon a powerful devil to heed his ambitions, and I 
do not wish to see any more orphans created as the result 
of this. Unfortunately, I do not know where he intends to 
perform this ritual. My superior, Sister Endreah, might, but 
I am afraid she no longer trusts me, as she’s wholly placed 
her faith in this impostor. As much as it pains me to say, I 
think you can extract that information from her.”
Sister Sylve tells the PCs the location of the Lucent 
Mission in the Aspodell Mountains and how many 
of her sisters remain there. She asks them to not kill 
anyone, but warns them that the sisters will fight back 
against intruders. If the PCs have exorcised Bright 
Embers Orphanage, Sister Sylve plans to return there 
and reopen it.
F. LUCENT MISSION
The Lucent Mission is a small Sisterhood of the Golden 
Erinys monastery in the foothills of the northwest 
Aspodell Mountains. Various orders of the sisterhood 
use it over the course of the year, training novitiates 
before sending them to their posts in Isgeri towns. The 
building also contains an archive of Asmodean texts 
that the sisterhood has collected over the decades. It’s 
here that Viro Ahala, with the help of Sister Endreah, 
discovered the ritual he believes will grant him the 
power needed to enact his revenge.
With directions from Sister Sylve, the PCs are able 
to find the hidden trail that leads up the hills to the 
Lucent Mission. The trailhead is about half a day from 
Vordia, and ascending the path takes a few more hours. 
If the PCs left Vordia at dawn, it’s likely sunset or 
F1
F1
F2
F2
F3
F3
F4
F4
F5
F5
F6
F6
F7
F7
F8
F8
F9
F9
LUCENT MISSION
LUCENT MISSION
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 44 =====
43
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
nighttime if they traveled nonstop through the day. If 
the PCs took the robes of the Erinys at the orphanage, 
a PC wearing the robes gains a +1 circumstance bonus 
to their initiative rolls at the Lucent Mission, as the 
nuns are thrown off by seeing a stranger in the garb 
of their sisters.
F1. Mountain Trail
A rough dirt path winds up through the hills at the 
outskirts of the Aspodell Mountains. Boulders flank the 
trail, providing an obstructed view of the building ahead.
If the PCs are quiet, they can set up a small camp 
here and rest overnight without being spotted by the 
sisterhood. The sisters have no reason to patrol and do 
not fear intruders.
F2. Mission Garden	
Low 2
A low stone fence encircles a small garden in front of the 
wooden building. Two trellises are entwined with grapes 
and a few bushes bloom with autumn flowers. A pentagram 
is emblazoned in the wood above the double doors leading 
inside.
As part of their training, new sisters are tasked with 
tending this garden. The fruit and flowers here are used 
in the mission’s cooking, usually bland and simple fare. 
The grapes growing on the vines are small and bitter.
Creatures: Regardless of the time of day, two 
novitiates are here, pruning the bushes or pulling 
weeds. If the sun has already set, they do so by lantern 
light. Those not of the sisterhood are usually not 
allowed at the mission, so the novitiates attack when 
they see the PCs.
NOVITIATES OF THE GOLDEN ERINYS (2) 	CREATURE 1
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
UNHOLY
Female human monks
Perception +9
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Acrobatics +5, Athletics +6, Deception +5, Diplomacy 
+5, Hell Lore +7, Intimidation +6, Religion +7, Society +5
Str +4, Dex +1, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +0
Items darts (5)
AC 15; Fort +10, Ref +7, Will +8
HP 20; Weaknesses holy 3; Resistances fire 3
Speed 30 feet
Melee [one-action] fist +9 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 1d4+4 
bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] dart +6 (agile, thrown 20 feet), Damage 1d4 
piercing
Flurry of Blows [one-action] (flourish) The novitiate makes two fist 
Strikes, applying her multiple attack penalty as normal. 
If both hit the same creature, combine their damage for 
the purpose of resistances and weaknesses.
F3. Entry
This simple entryway is decorated only with a carved 
wooden plaque above the eastern door that reads “Praise 
the Bright King of Hell.”
Sisters are expected to genuflect below the plaque 
before entering the mission proper. A PC who succeeds 
at a DC 12 Religion check recognizes the plaque is 
referring to Asmodeus.
F4. Temple
Three pews occupy the space in front of an impressive 
pulpit. A massive pentagram has been neatly burned into 
the wood on the eastern wall. A hallway leads north at the 
western end of the room, while there is a door a few feet 
away in the same wall.
The sisters gather here for worship on a nightly 
basis, murmuring quiet prayers in Asmodeus’ name. 
Occasionally, the highest-ranking sister present will 
give a sermon at the pulpit, which is decorated in a 
style similar to most Chelaxian architecture.
Treasure: Among the unholy scripture found on 
the pulp, a PC who succeeds at a DC 20 Perception 
check finds a secret panel, behind which is an ebony 
statuette of Asmodeus worth 40 gp and +1 handwraps 
of mighty blows.
F5. Sisters’ Quarters
Eight identical rooms line the hall here, each containing 
a simple cot and a footlocker for the occupant’s meager 
personal belongings. The sisters don’t often stay long 
here, so the rooms contain no personal decorations.
Treasure: One footlocker contains a +1 bo staff. 
Another contains 13 gp in a leather pouch.
F6. Dining Room
At first glance, this is an unassuming dining room with a 
large table surrounded by six chairs. However, that notion 
is dispelled by the intricate scrollwork on the walls near 
the ceiling depicting hundreds of cavorting devils. There 
is a door leading further north and another leading east.
When the PCs enter this room, they hear the 
shattering of crockery and a string of curses in Diabolic

===== Page 45 =====
44
coming from behind the northern door. One of the orts 
there dropped a plate while washing it, rousing the ire 
of the sister watching over them.
F7. Scullery 	
Moderate 2
A steel basin and an iron stove stand against the northern 
wall. A round table bears the scars and stains of hundreds 
of meal preparations. Two closed barrels occupy different 
corners.
This is the mission’s simple kitchen, where the 
sisters prepare meals for anyone staying here. One 
barrel contains fresh water, while the other contains 
ground wheat for making bread and gruel.
Creatures: Sometimes, a sister tasked with cleaning 
up after a meal will “borrow” a tome from the archive 
to summon low-level devils to perform the drudge 
work. Currently, two orts stand by the sink, scrubbing 
plates and pots, while one sister watches over them and 
keeps them on task. A small pile of broken crockery 
near the sink is the result of a clumsy ort. The sister 
orders the orts to kill the intruders, though she isn’t 
above engaging in combat herself.
ORTS (2)	
CREATURE 0
Pathfinder Monster Core 86
Initiative Perception +0
SISTER OF THE GOLDEN ERINYS	
CREATURE 2
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
UNHOLY
Female human monk
Perception +10
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Acrobatics +6, Athletics +7, Deception +6, Diplomacy 
+6, Hell Lore +8, Intimidation +7, Religion +8, Society +6
Str +4, Dex +1, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +0
Items darts (5)
AC 17; Fort +11, Ref +8, Will +9
HP 30; Weaknesses holy 4; Resistances fire 4
Speed 30 feet
Melee [one-action] fist +11 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 
1d4+6 bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] dart +8 (agile, thrown 20 feet), Damage 1d4+2 
piercing
Claw of Pain When the sister targets the same creature 
with two Strikes from her Flurry of Blows, she can cause 
lingering pain. If either Strike hits and deals damage, the 
target must succeed at a DC 18 Fortitude save or take 
1d4 persistent mental damage (and become sickened 1 
on a critical failure).
Flurry of Blows [one-action] (flourish) As novitiate (page 43).
F8. Training Hall	
Moderate 2
Two training dummies have been erected near a large 
straw mat on the floor, and two weapon racks occupy the 
back of the room. At the southern end of the room is a door.
Much of a sister’s time here at the Lucent Mission is 
spent training in the martial art known as Hell’s claw. 
This involves a lot of sparring practice with other 
initiates, with bare fists and occasionally asp coils. The 
sisterhood takes a relaxed attitude toward the deaths 
of novitiates during this process, so sisters must perfect 
their combat skills quickly.
Creatures: Matches between sisters are usually 
spectated by a more experienced nun to adjudicate the 
results, so the two sisters here are practicing their skills 
against the training dummies. One lands a vicious kick 
to a dummy’s head, knocking it clean off, as the PCs 
enter. The two sisters recognize the PCs as interlopers 
and attack. If one sister is knocked unconscious, the 
Sister of the 
Golden Erinys

===== Page 46 =====
45
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
other retreats to area F9 when reduced to fewer than 
6 Hit Points.
SISTERS OF THE GOLDEN ERINYS (2) 

CREATURE 2
Page 44
Initiative Perception +10
Treasure: A +1 whip and a 
crimson thorn (page 213) rest in one 
of the weapon racks. None of the sisters 
training here has earned the right to wield 
the iconic weapon of their order.
F9. Mission Archive
Severe 2
Bookshelves line the eastern and western 
walls of this stuffy room filled with books and 
archived letters. A large, imposing desk made 
from ebony wood faces the only door.
The sisterhood keeps much of its most valuable 
information here in the Lucent Mission’s archive. The 
tomes and documents on the shelves are mainly texts on 
the worship of Asmodeus, treatises on the hierarchies of 
devils in Hell, and illustrated primers on various martial 
disciplines. Viro Ahala was able to discover a rare ritual 
here with the sisterhood’s help, but took that book with 
him with Endreah’s blessing and permission.
Creatures: Sister Endreah has been spending her 
time in the archive, scouring it for further information 
that could aid Cheliax in retaining its hold on 
Isger. She assumes the PCs are affiliated with the 
country’s “less desirable revolutionary element” and 
immediately opens a book to summon the archivist, 
a velavi in charge of the monastery’s books. During 
the battle, Sister Endreah lectures the PCs on their 
lack of discipline but is shaken if the PCs reveal that 
Viro isn’t a real Hellknight, giving the PCs a chance to 
Demoralize her. If Sister Endreah is reduced to fewer 
than 6 Hit Points and the velavi has been defeated, she 
begrudgingly surrenders.
SISTER ENDREAH	
CREATURE 4
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
UNHOLY
Female human monk
Perception +12
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Acrobatics +9, Athletics +11, Deception +9, 
Diplomacy +10, Hell Lore +12, Intimidation +10, Religion 
+12, Society +10
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +2, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +1
Items asp coil, darts (5), robes of the Erinys (page 212)
AC 20; Fort +13, Ref +10, Will +11
HP 60; Weaknesses holy 5; Resistances fire 5
Speed 30 feet
Melee [one-action] asp coil +14 (reach, 
versatile 
P), 
Damage 
1d6+8 
slashing
Melee [one-action] fist +14 (agile, nonlethal, 
unarmed), 
Damage 
1d4+8 
bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] dart +11 (agile, thrown 20 
feet), Damage 1d4+3 piercing
Bite of the Asp Stance [one-action] (concentrate, 
stance) Requirements Sister Endreah is 
wielding an asp coil; Effect Sister Endreah is an 
expert at using her sword in close quarters. Her 
asp coil loses the reach weapon property, 
but she can make asp coil Strikes instead 
of fist Strikes when she uses Flurry of 
Blows. Claw of pain also applies to these asp 
coil Strikes when in this stance.
Claw of Pain As sister of the golden erinys (page 44), but 
DC 21.
Flurry of Blows [one-action] (flourish) As novitiate of the golden 
erinys (page 43).
VELAVI	
CREATURE 2
Page 228
Initiative Perception +11
Learning of the Ritual: The PCs should be most 
interested in the ritual Sister Sylve told them Viro Ahala 
discovered here. The ritual’s purpose is to summon a 
powerful devil and bind it to one’s will, preventing the 
possibility of getting tricked into a bad deal. If asked, 
a captured Sister Endreah mockingly tells the PCs 
they’re too late. She doesn’t know where exactly in 
the Chitterwood the ritual will take place, but admits 
that Viro plans to rid Isger of its “goblin problems” 
for good, starting in the east. If the PCs killed Sister 
Endreah, they find a general map of the country with 
the eastern portion of the Chitterwood circled in red on 
the desk, giving them the same information.
Surrendered Sisters: If Sister Endreah and any 
other nuns are alive, they can be taken to Vordia to 
face justice. While the citizens there have a positive 
view of the Sisterhood, Sister Sylve’s testimony 
convinces them to take the nuns into custody until 
the exact nature of their crimes can be determined. 
The PCs gain 1 RP.
Treasure: Within the Mission Archive is a 
compendium of scholarly journals on the topic of 
devils and 60 gp worth of donated trinkets from 
devotees of Asmodeus.
Sister Endreah

===== Page 47 =====
46
After investigating the Lucent Mission of the Sisterhood 
of the Golden Erinys, the PCs have learned that the false 
Hellknight Viro Ahala is planning to conduct a ritual 
somewhere in the eastern Chitterwood that could spell 
big trouble for Isger. Unfortunately, they don’t know his 
exact location, and time could be running short!
If the PCs haven’t visited the four locations in central 
Isger that they’ve been asked to help out and still need 
more XP to reach level 3, they can aid those places now. 
There is no ticking clock for Viro’s ritual, and gaining 
more Reputation Points could help the PCs leverage 
these new connections for more information. They can 
also return to Saringallow to rest, resupply, and ask 
for advice. If they do so, Rhokrag suggests they revisit 
areas near the Chitterwood (Stumpfield or Umok, for 
instance) to ask around if anyone has seen anything 
suspicious in the woods. This could be a chance for the 
PCs to gain Reputation Points in those towns if they 
haven’t already (see pages 36 and 39).
To Gather Information about Viro’s plot in 
Stumpfield or Umok, the PCs must succeed at a DC 20 
Diplomacy check. If they have at least 8 Reputation 
Points, they gain a +1 circumstance bonus to this check; 
if they have at least 12 Reputation Points, this bonus 
increases to +2. On a success, they pick up on rumors 
spread by local farmers and foresters of recently seeing 
“a figure clad in black armor” stalking through the 
woods. If a PC presses an eyewitness, they learn more 
details that confirm that the armor this figure wore is 
similar to the iconic Hellknight full plate. By following 
up on this lead, the PCs gain a +1 circumstance bonus 
to the Survival check to navigate the Chitterwood; 
if their Diplomacy check was a critical success, this 
bonus increases to +2.
Chapter 3:
Devils of Chitterwood

===== Page 48 =====
47
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Alternatively, the PCs can head directly to the 
Chitterwood after leaving the Lucent Mission to begin 
looking for signs of Viro. In such a case, proceed to 
Into the Chitterwood. If they haven’t returned to 
Saringallow, the PCs will have a chance to buy or craft 
new items in Thorngrip.
Into the Chitterwood
Despite many of the trees being cut or burned down along 
the outskirts in the aftermath of the Goblinblood Wars, 
the Chitterwood is still an imposing old-growth forest. Any 
signs of the central Isgeri farmlands are swallowed by the 
surrounding trees within only a few minutes after entering. 
The forest canopy overhead blocks much of the day’s light. 
The sounds of wildlife can be heard all around: chirping 
birds, rustling underbrush, and snapping twigs as animals 
pass by.
There are no roads into the Chitterwood, only a few 
sparse game trails widened by hunters and foresters that 
penetrate only a mile into the forest. The native goblin 
populations tend to keep to themselves, ranging only 
short distances from their caves and small villages to 
forage, which has very little impact on the surrounding 
terrain. As the PCs begin exploring the Chitterwood, 
either trying to find the spots where people mentioned 
seeing a figure in armor or searching for other signs 
of Viro, one of them should attempt a DC 20 Survival 
check to Track. On a success, after about an hour, that 
PC spots what could be heavy boot prints in the dirt; 
on a critical success, they can tell the tracks are about 
a week old. Following the prints leads them to a large 
stump that appears to have a few extinguished candle 
stubs near it. On a failure, the PCs stumble around the 
woods for a few hours and accidentally come across 
this same scene, but the devils by the stump gain a +2 
circumstance bonus to their initiative checks.
DEVILS ON THE LOOSE	
MODERATE 3
A petrified stump is the only remnant of what must have 
once been a towering tree. The brush around it has been 
cleared away, and several ritualistic candles and shards of 
crystal have been discarded by a crack in the stump that 
leads to a small underground hollow.
Approximately a week earlier, Viro Ahala and 
several other Hellknight armigers who survived the 
battle at Breachill found this stump and thought it a 
good place to practice the ritual. A PC who succeeds 
at a DC 18 Perception or Survival check discovers 
the presence of several sets of boot prints in the dirt, 
but they are unfortunately too obscured for the PC 
to deduce where the group went after moving about 
this space. If the PCs fear that they’ve missed their 
opportunity to thwart Viro, a PC who succeeds at a 
DC 16 Arcana, Occultism, or Religion check discerns 
that the magical energy lingering near this stump is the 
result of a much smaller ritual.
The PCs enter this area from the northwest. 
Because of the tree cover, this area is cast in dim light 
during the day. Use the Ritual Stump map on page 48 
for this encounter.
Creatures: Viro’s practice ritual was successful and 
summoned a small group of drudge devils that Viro 
bound to this stump. He hopes that any havoc they 
cause will be enough of a distraction to keep anyone 
hunting him (including the Hellbreakers League) busy. 
One of the four orts was empowered by the ritual to 
be a little stronger than the others, and its enhanced 
presence bolsters the group. The orts emerge from the 
hollow under the stump when the PCs approach and 
fight until destroyed, as stipulated by Viro’s orders.
ORTS (3)	
CREATURE 0
Pathfinder Monster Core 86
Initiative Perception +0
ELITE ORT	
CREATURE 2
Pathfinder Monster Core 6, 86
Initiative Perception +2
Fiendish Order (aura, divine, unholy) 30 feet. An elite ort 
is ripe enough to be shaped into another, more powerful 
devil and gives off an aura of superiority. Each allied ort 
in the aura gains a +1 circumstance bonus to attack and 
damage rolls.
Treasure: A PC who succeeds at DC 16 Perception 
check when examining the hollow under the stump 
finds an imposing shield (page 213) that was left 
behind by one of Viro’s followers as well as 30 gp 
worth of unused ritual supplies that were discarded 
when Viro obtained better quality materials.
THORNGRIP LOOKSEE PARTY
Once a week, the goblins of Thorngrip (see sidebar on 
page 50) put together a Looksee Party to scout around 
the town for a full day and determine whether there are 
any threats to their safety. In recent years, each Looksee 
Party has usually been led by Zagnub (cheerful nonbinary 
goblin scout 2), a trusted and well-liked member of 
the community. Zagnub enjoys the responsibility and 
keeps copious mental notes about what they see, hear, 
and smell. Recently, one of Zagnub’s Looksee Parties 
spotted Viro and his entourage and reported it back to

===== Page 49 =====
RITUAL STUMP
RITUAL STUMP
SLAYER CAMP
SLAYER CAMP
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
48
Thorngrip’s ruling council. Since then, the goblins have 
fielded more Looksee Parties than normal, worried about 
these intruders. One such party observes the PCs as they 
make their way through the Chitterwood and waits to 
see what they do before confronting them.
When the PCs slay the last of the orts at the stump, 
they slowly begin to feel that they are being watched 
from the surrounding trees. A PC who succeeds at a 
DC 21 Perception check notices at least six sets of red 
eyes peering at them from the tree line to the south. 
That PC has enough time to warn their allies before a 
tall goblin steps out from the underbrush, their hands 
spread wide and away from their weapons.
Though the tall goblin is smiling and deliberately unarmed, 
their razor-sharp teeth somewhat undercut their message 
of peace. “Relax, longshanks,” they say in accented 
Common. “If we wanted to kill you, we would’ve done so. I 
be Zagnub of the Thorngrip goblins.” They gesture toward 
the steaming piles of goo that were once devils. “Devils no 
friends of yours, yes?”
The PCs immediately get the impression that the 
answer to this question is the difference between 
fighting and friendship. This adventure assumes that 
the PCs answer in the positive and perhaps even tell 
Zagnub they are looking for more devils and their 
allies to slay; with a delighted chuckle, Zagnub 
gestures for the PCs to follow them.
If the PCs lie or attempt to intimidate the goblins, 
they lose 1 Reputation Point, and the goblins hiding in 
the trees fire a volley of arrows at them before Zagnub 
disappears back into the woods. Each PC takes 2d6+4 
piercing damage (DC 18 basic Reflex save), and the 
goblins are unfriendly toward them. That said, the PCs 
can still Track the Looksee Party to Thorngrip and 
proceed to Thorngrip Pariahs (page 50).
Welcome to Thorngrip
Assuming the PCs follow the Looksee Party, they travel 
through the woods for almost an hour. The goblins 
seem to be able to easily pick their way through the 
underbrush, occasionally climbing partially up a tree 
to swing from one branch to another. If the PCs lag 
a little behind, Zagnub stops the party and waits for 
them to catch up, eagerly waving them forward. Each 
PC can attempt a DC 17 Athletics, Nature, or Survival 
check; if at least half of the party succeeds, they

===== Page 50 =====
49
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
keep good time with the Looksee Party and impress 
Zagnub. They eventually reach an imposing wall of 
thorns. Read or paraphrase the following.
A massive sequoia rises 
behind a curving wall of 
seemingly 
impenetrable 
thorns. 
With 
practiced 
confidence, Zagnub walks up 
to a section of the wall that seems 
no different from the rest of it, reaches 
in, and pulls on a branch. The thorns and 
vines part into a small hole in the wall. The other 
goblins quickly pile inside, with Zagnub last. The 
goblin scout gestures to follow with a wide smile 
that shows every one of their many pointed teeth.
On the other side of the thorn wall is a bustling goblin 
town centered around the sequoia. Most of the buildings 
are small, wooden huts with thatched roofs, and a few of 
them have been built attached to the trunk of the large 
tree, with ladders and ramps leading up to them. This line 
of houses reaches no higher than the top of the thorn wall, 
making them difficult to spot from outside the village.
Several residents greet the returning Looksee Party, 
and some of the younger goblins stop to stare at the 
newcomers. Their parents gently guide them away, a 
few with worried looks on their own faces. “Welcome to 
Thorngrip,” says Zagnub.
Zagnub ushers the PCs through the town toward 
the base of the sequoia, where a large shrine has been 
carved into the wood. Many goblin faces have been 
expertly painted across the shrine with a dark ink or 
stain. An older goblin kneels at the shrine, offering 
muttered devotions, though he rises when Zagnub 
clears their throat. When he turns to face the PCs, 
they see a flash of blue light in his eyes and, for just 
a second, the impression that several spectral goblins 
are standing behind him. The goblin murmurs, “I 
see Zagnub has made some new longshanks friends. 
Greetings. I am Brakknap.”
Brakknap (haunted male goblin oracle 4) is 
Thorngrip’s founder and often speaks with the spirits of 
goblins past to help guide the town. Brakknap has a long 
and troubled history that can be found on page 236, but 
despite the pain some humans have inflicted on him, he 
would like to see the two ancestries living in harmony. 
The goblin ancestor spirits have been perturbed lately 
by what Viro Ahala has been doing in the Chitterwood, 
but Brakknap believes that Thorngrip doesn’t have 
the strength to stop him alone, so he’s asked Zagnub’s 
Looksee Parties to be watchful for anyone else who 
might be able to help. However, Brakknap isn’t about to 
trust the PCs without good reason. Luckily for the PCs, 
tales of some of the work they’ve been doing around 
Isger has reached Thorngrip.
Before he gives them any 
information, Brakknap wants 
to hear all about the PCs from 
their mouths; he asks them who 
they are and their reasons for being in 
the Chitterwood. If any of the PCs are 
goblins or hobgoblins, Brakknap asks 
them about their histories and their 
opinions about the rest of the party, 
especially any humans. He is pleased to 
listen to any accounts of goblins and humans 
working together toward a common goal. At 
the end of this conversation, one PC—likely the one 
who did the most talking—should attempt a DC 18 
Diplomacy check to Make an Impression on Brakknap. 
If the PCs have at least 8 Reputation Points, they gain 
a +1 circumstance bonus to this check; if they have at 
least 12 Reputation Points, this bonus increases to +2. 
Brakknap’s starting attitude is indifferent; if the PCs 
raise it to friendly or helpful, he allows them to rest or 
shop in Thorngrip before they head out to perform the 
task he gives them so they can earn Thorngrip’s trust.
Regardless of the result of this check, read or 
paraphrase the following.
Brakknap appears to be listening to some unheard voices 
for a moment. He then nods solemnly. “The ancestors can 
help you find the one you seek, but you must understand 
that for us goblins of the Chitterwood, trust is not given 
lightly. Though Zagnub has vouched for you by bringing 
you here, I would ask you for a favor. Some of our scouts 
have watched other humans enter our territory whose 
motives are less worthy than yours. They are part of a 
group calling themselves the Isgeri Slayers, and they have 
made it their mission to finish what was started during the 
Goblinblood Wars.”
Brakknap looks pained, as if remembering something he 
would rather forget. “I don’t care how you do it, but drive 
them off. The chances they will find Thorngrip are small, but 
I fear what would happen if they came across any goblins.”
If the PCs agree to help Thorngrip, Brakknap tells 
them that Zagnub will point them toward where 
these Isgeri Slayers were last seen. With some remorse, 
Brakknap also says that the PCs will not be allowed 
to step inside Thorngrip again until the Isgeri Slayers 
are gone. Proceed to Isgeri Slayers on page 50 if the 
PCs are eager to get to the action, but if Brakknap is 
friendly or helpful, they can take some time to look 
around Thorngrip before they leave.
Zagnub

===== Page 51 =====
50
Treasure: Zagnub has taken a liking to the PCs and 
gifts them an oil of potency.
DOWNTIME IN THORNGRIP
Though it’s a small town, Thorngrip has many of 
the amenities that one can find in any large city. The 
goblin residents, however, tend not to use the currency 
of the land, instead preferring to barter for goods and 
services. If the PCs want to buy items, they can procure 
common and magical items up to level 3 and alchemical 
consumables and talismans up to level 4. A PC receives 
the standard value for selling an item and can easily 
trade for an equivalent amount of items. For any 
difference in value, the goblin merchants don’t pay the 
PCs gold; instead, they give them physical items such 
as small gems or rare herbs that can later be sold or 
traded in a larger city for their correct value. If willing, 
a PC can also take an appropriate amount of food and 
drink as part of a trade. Instead of receiving currency, 
a PC who takes some downtime to Earn an Income in 
Thorngrip is instead paid in goods and services.
The artisans of Thorngrip include Ghugg (gruff 
male goblin smith 1), who sells weapons and armor 
with a goblin flair; Mirdona (inquisitive female goblin 
alchemist 1), who brews alchemical elixirs and the 
occasional bomb; Ikko (fussy nonbinary goblin 
magician 1), who fashions talismans from natural 
materials and carves runes into petrified bark; and Duz 
(experimental female goblin chef 1), who can pickle 
just about anything.
Thorngrip has no inns, as they don’t expect to have 
visitors, but there’s one house that remains empty 
for new goblin arrivals to use while they build more 
permanent abodes. Brakknap allows the PCs to use 
this house, which is close to the shrine, when they need 
to rest. If his attitude is helpful, Brakknap will cast a 
1st-rank heal on any PCs who are below half their HP 
before they rest, but he doesn’t have any magic to help 
with curses, diseases, and poisons.
Finally, if the PCs spend downtime to Craft or 
Retrain, they are allowed to use facilities within 
Thorngrip to do so at no charge. However, until they 
help out with the Isgeri Slayers, Brakknap gives them 
disappointed looks if they dawdle in town for more 
than a day.
THORNGRIP PARIAHS
On the off chance that the PCs didn’t join with the 
Looksee Party to enter Thorngrip as friends, they have 
to prove they are worthy of the goblins’ help before 
being allowed inside. If they follow the goblin scouts 
to the thorn wall, Zagnub yells at them to go away 
before passing through the thorns. It’s unlikely the 
PCs will be able to find their own way into the town 
(see Thorngrip sidebar), and after some time trying, 
Brakknap appears at the wall to confront the PCs. He 
tells them bluntly that if they wish to gain the town’s 
trust, they need to deal with the Isgeri Slayers out in 
the forest. The PCs will get a chance to tell Brakknap 
their story (and attempt to improve his attitude) once 
they do so.
The Isgeri Slayers
The hatred stoked by the Goblinblood Wars two 
decades ago has not fully dissipated in Isger. Some 
veterans of that war formed an unsanctioned group 
of rangers and foresters calling themselves the Isgeri 
Slayers. The sole purpose of this loose affiliation is to 
hunt down and kill all goblinoids within the country’s 
borders. The Isgeri Slayers spend days and sometimes 
weeks within the Chitterwood, hunting down goblins 
for sport and as an outlet for their rage.
Most goblins manage to escape these bigoted 
hunters, and more than a few larger tribes have turned 
the tables on them deep in the woods. Despite a 
relatively high rate of fatal “accidents” during these 
THORNGRIP
The story of how Brakknap established this town 
a few decades ago can be found on page 236.
THORNGRIP
SETTLEMENT 3
TOWN
GOBLIN
Goblin haven nestled within the Chitterwood.
Government council of elders (spirit-chosen 
leaders)
Population 529 (100% goblins)
Languages Common, Goblin
Religions ancestor worship, goblin animism
Threats Isgeri Slayers, wild creatures of the 
Chitterwood
Hidden from View Thorngrip is surrounded by a 
wall of thorns that stands over a dozen feet high. 
The residents know the secret ways through this 
wall, but an outsider must succeed at a DC 29 
Perception check to find them. Most wildlife 
tends to ignore the wall.
Brakknap 
(haunted 
male 
goblin 
oracle 
4) 
Thorngrip’s founder and trusted advisor
Neemi (wise female goblin leader 2) Thorngrip’s 
longest-serving council elder
Zagnub (cheerful nonbinary goblin scout 2) 
Looksee Party leader

===== Page 52 =====
51
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
hunting trips and the disdain of the general public, 
the Isgeri Slayers have maintained a somewhat steady 
membership, and new recruits are usually indoctrinated 
by older members with propaganda about the vileness 
and cruelty of goblinkind, continuing the cycle of 
enmity. A PC who succeeds at a DC 16 Society check 
is familiar with the Isgeri Slayers and might even have 
had a run-in with them in the past if they are a goblin 
or hobgoblin who is from Isger.
A group of Isgeri Slayers spent the past few days 
in the Chitterwood on one of their “weekend hunts” 
and got close enough to Thorngrip to concern the 
residents. Some members of this particular cadre are 
less dedicated to killing than the others and treat the 
trip more like a vacation and an excuse to indulge in 
alcohol. The PCs can attempt a DC 16 Perception or 
Survival check to locate the slayers; if the PCs fail this 
check, they don’t catch the drunken slayers by surprise 
and don’t receive the bonus to their initiative.
SLAYER CAMP	
LOW 3
Five hastily erected tents surround a campfire in this small 
clearing. A handful of empty whiskey bottles have been 
pushed bottleneck-first into the dirt near the fire. A couple 
of logs have been pulled close to the tents to serve as 
makeshift chairs.
While these Isgeri Slayers have been in the 
Chitterwood before, they aren’t the most competent 
campers, largely due to their excessive drinking. The 
tents would likely collapse in a strong wind, but serve 
their purpose for the Slayers.
Creatures: Two of the Isgeri Slayers and their 
trained wolf ranged out into the woods to hunt for 
food while the remaining three stayed behind and 
continued to drink. These three are drunk enough 
that the PCs can easily creep up toward the camp 
and take them by surprise, giving the PCs a +1 
circumstance bonus to their initiative. Each of the 
drunken slayers flees, if possible, when reduced to 6 
or fewer Hit Points.
However, the PCs don’t have to attack the slayers. 
The PCs can attempt up to three DC 17 skill checks 
using any combination of Deception, Intimidation, 
and Performance to scare the slayers into leaving. 
If they succeed at two of these skill checks, they 
frighten the three drunken slayers off; a critical 
success lowers the DC of the next check by 1. If the 
PCs critically fail a single check or fail two of these 
checks, the drunken slayers grab their weapons and 
attack. An attempted Diplomacy check automatically 
fails against the inebriated slayers, who are too out of 
it to consider listening to reason, and counts against 
one of the three checks.
DRUNKEN ISGERI SLAYERS (3)	
CREATURE 1
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Male human drunkards
Perception +5
Languages Common
Skills Acrobatics +5, Athletics +6, Intimidation +4, Nature 
+6, Survival +7
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +4, Cha +0
Items leather armor, longsword, shortbow (20 arrows), 
shortsword
AC 15; Fort +9, Ref +4, Will +7
HP 24
Drunken Stumble [reaction] Trigger The drunken Isgeri Slayer is 
hit with an attack that deals physical damage; Effect The 
drunken slayer stumbles away from the blow. They gain 
resistance 2 to the damage of the triggering attack and 
they can Step. They also take a –1 circumstance penalty 
to AC for 1 round.
Speed 20 feet
Melee [one-action] longsword +8 (versatile P), Damage 1d8+3 
slashing
Melee [one-action] shortsword +8 (agile, versatile S), Damage 
1d6+3 piercing
Melee [one-action] fist +8 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 
1d4+3 bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] shortbow +6 (deadly d10, range increment 60 
feet), Damage 1d6 piercing
Hunt Prey [one-action] (concentrate) The Isgeri Slayer designates 
a single creature they can see and hear, or one 
they’re Tracking, as their prey. The slayer gains a +2 
circumstance bonus to Perception checks to Seek the 
prey and to Survival checks to Track the prey. The first 
time the slayer hits the designated prey in a round, they 
deal an additional 1d6 precision damage. The slayer also 
ignores the penalty for making ranged attacks within 
their second range increment. These effects last until 
the poacher uses Hunt Prey again.
Development: A PC who takes a few moments 
to examine the camp notices that two of the tents 
are devoid of any weapons or armor, meaning their 
occupants must have taken these items with them. 
The PCs have only 10 minutes before the hunting 
party returns. If the PCs have captured a drunken 
slayer alive and succeed at a DC 15 Diplomacy or 
Intimidation check, the slayer warns them about the 
trained wolf.
Reward: If the PCs frighten off the drunken Isgeri 
Slayers, award them XP as if they had defeated them 
in combat.

===== Page 53 =====
52
HUNTING PARTY	
MODERATE 3
The other two Isgeri Slayers ranged out a few miles 
west of their camp but were only a little successful, 
bagging two small rabbits. They return approximately 
10 minutes after the PCs deal with the drunken 
slayers, and aren’t expecting to run into trouble. 
A PC who succeeds at a DC 14 Perception check 
hears them coming, giving the PCs a few moments 
to prepare from their arrival if they haven’t already. 
A PC can hide around the camp with a successful 
DC 18 Stealth check, gaining a +1 circumstance 
bonus to their initiative. Alternatively, a PC can 
try to impersonate one of the drunken slayers by 
attempting a DC 18 Deception check to catch the 
returning slayers off-guard.
Creatures: The two returning Isgeri Slayers have 
their hunting wolf with them. This trained animal 
reacts to any violence against the slayers with growls 
and bites. The wolf fights until killed, but each of the 
slayers runs away, if possible, when reduced to 4 or 
fewer Hit Points.
As with the drunken slayers, the PCs don’t necessarily 
need to fight if they don’t want to. Intimidating or 
scaring off these slayers is also an option, though it’s 
more difficult as they aren’t inebriated. If the PCs have 
time to prepare, let them formulate a plan and attempt 
up to three DC 20 skill checks using any combination 
of Deception, Intimidation, and Performance. If they 
succeed at two of these skill checks, the remaining 
slayers and their wolf leave the Chitterwood; a critical 
success lowers the DC of the next check by 1. If the PCs 
critically fail a single check or fail two of these checks, 
the slayers attack without fear. If a PC attempts a 
Diplomacy check, they take a –1 circumstance penalty 
as the slayers are not interested in changing their ways.
TRAINED WOLF	
CREATURE 1
Wolf (Pathfinder Monster Core 350)
Initiative Perception +7
ISGERI SLAYERS (2)	
CREATURE 2
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Male human brigands
Perception +8
Languages Common
Skills Acrobatics +6, Athletics +7, Intimidation +5, Nature 
+7, Survival +8
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +4, Cha +0
Items leather armor, longsword, shortbow (20 arrows), 
shortsword
AC 17; Fort +11, Ref +5, Will +8
HP 36
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] longsword +10 (versatile P), Damage 1d8+5 slashing
Melee [one-action] shortsword +10 (agile, versatile S), Damage 
1d6+5 piercing
Melee [one-action] fist +10 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 
1d4+5 bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] shortbow +8 (deadly d10, range increment 60 
feet), Damage 1d6+2 piercing
Hunt Prey [one-action] (concentrate) As drunken Isgeri Slayer (page 
51), but an additional 1d8 precision damage.
Twin Takedown [one-action] (flourish) Requirements The Isgeri 
Slayer is wielding two melee weapons, each in a different 
hand; Effect The Isgeri Slayer swiftly attacks their 
hunted prey with each of their weapons, potentially 
combining their damage into a single devastating attack. 
They make two Strikes against their hunted prey, one 
with each of the required weapons. If both hit the same 
hunted prey, combine their damage for the purpose of 
its resistances and weaknesses. The Isgeri Slayer applies 
their multiple attack penalty to each Strike normally.
Isgeri Slayer

===== Page 54 =====
53
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Development: Any fleeing Isgeri Slayers head 
northeast out of the Chitterwood. If the PCs capture 
any slayers alive, Zagnub appears from behind a 
nearby tree to thank the PCs and relieve them of 
the burden of having to deal with unconscious 
humans. They assure the PCs that the 
slayers won’t be harmed and though they’re 
telling the truth, their smile when saying 
it is slightly predatory. The PCs can haul 
unconscious slayers out of Thorngrip territory if 
they wish, though such a task is a bit time-consuming. 
If the PCs kill any Isgeri Slayers after the fight is 
over, they lose 1 Reputation Point.
Treasure: In one of the tents is a pack with 
two lesser healing potions and a pouch of 
stolen trinkets worth 20 gp.
Reward: If the PCs frighten off the Isgeri 
Slayers and their wolf, award them XP as if 
they had defeated them in combat.
The Trust of Goblins
Once the PCs have taken care of the Isgeri Slayers, 
they’re met by Brakknap outside of Thorngrip, who 
ushers them inside. The resident goblins now look at 
them with admiration and respect as they pass through 
the streets. Brakknap trusts the PCs enough to reveal 
some information to them, but if the PCs would like to 
rest or shop first, he allows them to do so as described 
in Downtime in Thorngrip on page 50.
When the PCs are ready to continue, read or 
paraphrase the following.
The goblin oracle is waiting at the 
ancestor shrine and gives a brief smile 
before getting down to business. 
“The spirits are pleased that you are 
here on this day. This Viro Ahala you 
are searching for is doing something 
within our wood that has them 
worried, and we think you can stop 
it. However, the power he’s tapping 
into has obscured him from our ancestors’ 
sight.” His forehead crinkles a moment in 
thought. “This veil is not impenetrable. With 
your help, we can discover where the hell-human is 
performing his ritual.
“There are three sites of subtle power nearby within 
the Chitterwood. The ancestors have told me that Viro’s 
ritual has disturbed these places, making them more 
dangerous to approach than normal. Take this talisman 
to those sites. It will react to the changes in energy and, 
after being exposed to all three, it will help me to see 
Viro’s location.” Brakknap holds out a cloudy crystal on a 
leather cord. “I don’t know what you’ll find at these sites, 
but be ready for anything.”
Reward: For gaining Brakknap’s trust, 
award the PCs 30 XP.
Triangulating the 
Ritual
Brakknap describes the three locations the 
PCs need to visit and gives clear enough directions 
that the PCs should be able to find them without 
issue. The PCs can visit these three locations in any 
order and can return to Thorngrip at any point they 
need to rest. They should feel a sense of urgency 
to find Viro Ahala and stop his ritual but, for the 
moment, they don’t have a hard deadline. If the 
PCs ask Brakknap for any information about 
the locations, he will tell them the following.
The Hungry Hole: “No goblin knows who 
dug the Hungry Hole or even how deep it is, but 
we do know that it can’t be filled, no matter how much 
we throw into it. I’ve heard tales of goblins falling into 
the hole and coming out on the other side of the world. 
Those are just stories to keep young goblins away. 
Probably. The ancestors tell me, though, that it’s better 
to stay away from the edge.”
Little Tree: “For as long as I have been alive, Little 
Tree has been little. It doesn’t grow but it hasn’t died 
either. From what we understand about nature, it 
should be starved for sunlight or water by the other, 
bigger trees, but it just isn’t. The ancestors 
believe it’s fed by magic, and many find 
Little Tree’s presence very soothing.”
Moss Pond: “We call it a pond 
but it’s just a large patch of 
moss that sometimes ripples like 
water. You can walk across it if 
you want, it isn’t dangerous. You 
won’t even sink! Sometimes, 
children will take turns lying on 
the pond to feel the moss move 
under them. The ancestors say that 
it’s a connection to the very essence of the 
Chitterwood, but they can’t explain it any 
more than that.”
THE HUNGRY HOLE	
MODERATE 3
The Hungry Hole is less than an hour’s walk south 
of Thorngrip. When the PCs approach, read or 
paraphrase the following.
This clearing is devoid of all foliage in an almost perfect 
circle 40 feet in diameter. Not even the tiniest blade of 
Crystal Talisman
Hungry Hole

===== Page 55 =====
54
grass can be spotted in the dirt around a mundane-looking 
hole in the center of the clearing. The branches of the 
surrounding trees don’t encroach the space, creating a kind 
of tunnel from the ground to the sky. The edges of the hole 
shift and undulate like a ravenous mouth, daring anyone 
to approach.
The Hungry Hole is a kind of bottomless pit created 
centuries ago when a Chitterwood goblin wizard 
experimented with the extradimensional magic of 
a spacious pouch and had a predictable accident. 
Throughout the years, other goblins have thrown 
random objects within the pit; these all still exist 
somewhere within the Hungry Hole, but living things 
tossed (or that have fallen) into the pit reappeared 
in this clearing after a few hours… until Viro Ahala 
began corrupting the Chitterwood with his ritual. 
Now, the Hungry Hole is quite dangerous.
For this encounter, you can use any Flip-Mat 
depicting a forest. Draw a 10-foot-radius hole near the 
center to represent the Hungry Hole.
Hazard: The twisted energy emanating from Viro’s 
ritual has turned the Hungry Hole into a ravenous pit 
that tries to swallow the PCs whole if they approach. 
Any PC swallowed by the pit can faintly hear the 
laughter of devils and the screams of the damned, 
as if the extradimensional space within the trap 
neighbors Hell.
RAVENOUS PIT	
HAZARD 5
COMPLEX
MAGICAL
 TRAP
Stealth +13 (expert)
Description A seemingly ordinary hole in the forest floor 
exerts a strange gravity on creatures that come near.
Disable DC 23 Nature or Occultism (expert) three times to 
disperse the unusual energy surrounding the hole, or 
dispel magic (3rd rank; counteract DC 22) to counteract 
the engulfing magic
Deadly Inhale [reaction] Trigger A creature approaches within 
15 feet of the hole; Effect The ravenous pit seems to 
“inhale,” attempting to pull creatures into itself. Each 
creature within 15 feet must attempt a DC 24 Fortitude 
save. On a failure, the creature is pulled 5 feet closer 
to the hole (10 feet on a critical failure). The pit then 
rolls initiative.
Routine (2 actions) For each action, the pit chooses a 
different creature within a 20-foot emanation to attempt 
to swallow. That creature must attempt a DC 22 Fortitude 
save. On a failure, the creature is pulled 5 feet closer to 
the hole (10 feet on a critical failure). If this would pull 
the creature into the pit, that creature can attempt to 
Grab an Edge as a reaction (DC 22). A creature who falls 
into the pit disappears into an extradimensional space 
that feels like being buried alive. A creature takes 2d8+7 
bludgeoning damage (DC 20 basic Fortitude save) at the 
end of each its turns in the extradimensional space. A 
creature in this extradimensional space is grabbed and 
LITTLE TREE
LITTLE TREE
MOSS POND
MOSS POND
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 56 =====
55
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
slowed 1; they can Escape this extradimensional space 
with a successful DC 22 Athletics, Nature, or Survival 
check. If they succeed, they appear in a random spot no 
more than 10 feet from the hole as if they had clawed 
their way from the dirt.
While this trap is active, all creatures treat movement 
away from the pit as difficult terrain.
Reset If the trap isn’t disabled, it becomes dormant for 10 
minutes if there are no creatures within 20 feet of it at 
the start of its turn.
Development: When the ravenous pit trap has been 
disabled, the inside of the crystal Brakknap gave the 
PCs becomes slightly less cloudy.
Treasure: After the hazard is disabled, the pit spits 
up a pair of low-grade alloy orbs and 10 gp.
LITTLE TREE
MODERATE 3
Little Tree is approximately a 30-minute walk 
southeast of Thorngrip and uses the Little Tree map on 
page 54. When the PCs approach, read or paraphrase 
the following.
A sapling stands on a little hill, separate from the other 
trees. Though it’s small, the green of its leaves are lush and 
vibrant even in the autumn weather. An aura of peace and 
calm radiates from the little tree.
Little Tree is an unusual conduit of primal magic, a 
rare phenomenon that only appears deep within the 
oldest forests of Golarion. It represents the eternal 
youth of spring and while it’s a living thing, it never 
ages, gets sick, nor needs normal photosynthesis. 
However, when Viro Ahala began his ritual, this 
primal energy became warped, and all the potential 
growth Little Tree should have experienced over the 
decades has been inverted and projected outward.
Hazard: The corruption of Viro’s ritual has caused 
Little Tree’s energies to shrink nearby creatures instead 
of rejuvenating itself. A creature shrunken down by 
this trap also feels resentment and jealousy, a reflection 
of the emotions burning in Viro’s heart.
LITTLER BEASTS	
HAZARD 3
COMPLEX
MAGICAL
 TRAP
Stealth +10 (trained)
Description At first, the tree looks small. Then the space 
around it warps to give the impression that it’s a normal-
sized tree seen at a distance.
Disable DC 20 Nature or Occultism twice to disperse the 
warped magic around the tree, or dispel magic (2nd rank; 
counteract DC 19) to counteract the warped magic
Shrink and Expand [reaction] (illusion, mental) Trigger A creature 
approaches within 30 feet of the tree; Effect The tree 
seems to grow and shrink simultaneously. Each creature 
within a 30-foot emanation must attempt a DC 21 Will 
saving throw. The trap then rolls initiative.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is off-guard until the end of its 
next turn from the disorientation.
Failure The creature is slowed 1 as if unsure of the 
distance between places.
Critical Failure As failure, but slowed 2.
Routine (1 action) The trap targets a random creature 
within 60 feet to try to bring it down to its size. 
That creature must attempt a DC 20 Will save. On 
a failure, the creature becomes Tiny in size until the 
beginning of its next turn. An affected creature’s 
equipment shrinks with it but returns to its original 
size if removed. The creature’s reach changes to 0 
feet. This is a polymorph effect that has no effect on a 
Tiny creature. On a critical failure, the creature is also 
enfeebled 2 for the same duration.
Reset If the trap isn’t disabled, it becomes dormant for 10 
minutes if there are no creatures within 60 feet of it at 
the start of its turn.
Creature: One round after the trap rolls initiative, a 
wild grizzly bear enters the copse, searching for food. 
The warped magic of the area sends it into a frenzy 
and it gains the confused condition, attacking the PCs 
at random. The bear can be targeted by the hazard, 
and it fights until reduced to 5 or fewer Hit Points, at 
which point it comes to its senses and flees.
GRIZZLY BEAR	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder Monster Core 41
Initiative Perception +10
Development: When the trap has been disabled, 
the crystal Brakknap gave the PCs glows warmly 
from within.
Treasure: After disabling the hazard, the roots of 
Little Tree part to reveal a type I spacious pouch and 
several rare mushrooms worth a total of 10 gp.
MOSS POND	
MODERATE 3
Moss Pond is less than an hour’s walk west of 
Thorngrip. Use the Moss Pond map on page 54 for 
this encounter. When the PCs approach, read or 
paraphrase the following.
The normal undergrowth of the forest gives way to a large 
patch of moss a few dozen feet in diameter. The moss 
appears to be several inches thick on the ground, with 
patches of various shades of green. The moss undulates

===== Page 57 =====
56
slightly as if floating on water, but there is no water to 
be seen.
Unlike many of the other unusual phenomena in the 
Chitterwood—which are ancient and timeless in the 
eyes of the local goblinoids—Moss Pond is a relatively 
recent addition. With the Plane of Wood’s reconnection 
to the cosmos, this once-normal, albeit large, patch of 
moss became a faint conduit to that elemental plane. 
The occasional movement across the surface of the 
moss experienced by the local goblins was caused by 
energy from the Plane of Wood seeping through to 
the mortal Universe; this energy is normally harmless. 
As Viro Ahala’s ritual attempts to draw power from 
Hell, other planar breaches in the forest are reacting, 
becoming more unstable by the moment.
Hazard: Unstable planar energy is causing sudden 
growth and subsequent decay within the moss, creating 
dangerous “spears” of plant matter. Drawn to other 
living creatures, these spears of moss strike out at nearly 
anything that comes near the pond. A creature who 
takes poison damage from a spore spear Strike has a 
brief vision of endless burning forests, an overlapping 
of landscapes from the Plane of Wood and Hell.
SPORE SPEARS	
HAZARD 1
COMPLEX
MAGICAL
 TRAP
Stealth +7 (trained)
Description A large patch of moss ripples like the surface 
of a pond as spears of green plant matter jut outward.
Disable DC 17 Nature or Occultism twice to cut off the 
unstable connection to the Plane of Wood, or dispel 
magic (2nd rank; counteract DC 16) to counteract the 
planar magic
Planar Ripple [reaction] (wood) Trigger Two or more non-plant 
creatures step onto the moss pond; Effect The moss 
pond ripples oddly as its connection to the Plane of 
Wood intensifies. Each creature on the pond must 
succeed at a DC 17 Reflex save or be knocked prone. 
A creature who critically fails the save also takes 1d6 
bludgeoning damage from the fall. The pond then rolls 
initiative.
 STAGFALL CAVES
 STAGFALL CAVES
G1
G1
G2
G2
G5
G5
G3
G3
G4
G4
G6
G6
G9
G9
G11
G11
G8
G8
G7
G7
G10
G10
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 58 =====
57
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Routine (2 actions) For each action, the moss pond makes 
a spore spear Strike against a random non-plant creature 
on or within 10 feet of the moss pond.
Melee [one-action] spore spear +9 (reach 10 feet, poison, wood); 
Damage 1d6+1 piercing plus 1d4 poison; no multiple 
attack penalty
Reset If the trap isn’t disabled, it becomes dormant for 10 
minutes if there are no creatures on or within 10 feet of 
the moss patch at the start of its turn.
Creatures: As the moss pond trap rolls initiative, its 
connection to the Plane of Wood becomes briefly stable 
enough to allow creatures to pass through, though the 
trip is one-way. Two moss sloths, mobile colonies of 
moss growing on wooden simulacra of sloths, emerge 
in the center of the moss. Though moss sloths are 
usually docile, these are confused and disoriented by 
the planar travel, and they immediately attack the 
PCs, fighting until destroyed. Once destroyed, they are 
absorbed into the moss pond.
MOSS SLOTHS (2)
CREATURE 2
Pathfinder Rage of Elements 206
Initiative Perception +8
Development: When the spore spears trap has been 
disabled, the crystal Brakknap gave the PCs changes 
to a bright green.
Treasure: Strangely, there’s a smuggler’s padlock 
(page 210) left behind in the remains of a moss sloth.
BRAKKNAP’S REVELATION
Once the PCs have investigated the three sites above 
and dealt with the corrupted magic caused by Viro’s 
ritual, they can return to Brakknap. He seems to know 
that they’ve completed their mission and asks to see 
the crystal he gave them.
Brakknap looks serious as he holds the leather strap 
and peers at the crystal at the end of it. He stares for 
a moment and then his eyes go wide. With a mixture of 
anger and horror he says, “The caves. The hell-human 
Viro is in the caves.” He realizes that he’s speaking 
vaguely and composes himself. “Before the founding of 
Thorngrip, my tribe was hunted by humans at the end of 
the Goblinblood Wars. We hid in a small series of caves 
near here, but we knew they would not keep us safe 
forever. My grandmother used the power of the woods 
to transform into a mighty stag and lead the humans 
away. She did not survive, but her sacrifice was not in 
vain. The survivors found this tree and the ancestors 
helped me raise the wall of thorns around it. We have 
been safe since then.”
The older goblin takes a deep breath, voice trembling 
with anger. “We named those caves Stagfall in honor of my 
grandmother. And now this hell-human Viro is using them 
for his wicked purposes! This cannot stand!”
With the magic of the eastern Chitterwood 
returning to normal, the ancestor spirits were able 
to pinpoint Viro Ahala’s location as being within the 
nearby Stagfall Caves. They tell Brakknap that the 
Hellknight has discovered tunnels that lead deeper 
than any goblins have explored and warn that he has 
many allies. Brakknap passes this information on to 
the PCs, apologizing that the ancestors can’t be more 
specific. He then hands the crystal pendant back to the 
PCs, noting that it “still has much power within it.”
Brakknap can give the PCs directions to the caves 
and even describe the first few chambers (areas G1-
G3), but has no other guidance to give. If the PCs need 
to rest before leaving Thorngrip again, they can.
Treasure: In addition to the crystal, Brakknap gifts 
the PCs a runestone with a +1 striking rune carved 
into it that is “from the town elders.”
G. Stagfall Caves
Once Viro Ahala began exploring the Chitterwood 
to find a place suitable for his ritual, he was slowly 
drawn to the tunnels the Thorngrip goblins named 
Stagfall Caves. Deeper in the caves than any goblin 
had explored is a natural nexus of magical power with 
the potential to overcharge Viro’s ritual and grant him 
the revenge he’s seeking. He, along with a coterie of 
Hellknight armigers who also fled Breachill and a 
handful of conjured devils, has explored most of the 
subterranean tunnels. They established a few defensive 
areas to protect Viro as he works toward completing 
the ritual in the caves’ rearmost chamber. If the PCs 
don’t find and stop him, he’ll succeed in a matter of 
days (though the exact timing is left vague to let the 
PCs proceed at their own pace).
The hillside that contains Stagfall Caves is a day’s 
travel through the forest southeast of Thorngrip. The 
journey is relatively uneventful, but the closer the party 
gets to the cave entrance, the more they get the sense 
that something isn’t right. There are fewer sightings and 
sounds of wild animals in the underbrush and the tree 
branches overhead, as if they’re instinctively avoiding 
the area. A PC who succeeds at a DC 20 Nature or 
Survival check spots strange patterns in the bark of trees 
and clumps of moss close to the caves that resemble 
screaming, tortured faces; this PC knows that for the 
trees to have grown that way, it would have taken 
decades if not centuries, so whatever is happening with 
Viro’s ritual seems to be warping the natural world.

===== Page 59 =====
58
The interior of the cave is in darkness except 
where noted, and most ceilings are 15 to 20 
feet high. The PCs can use any of the caverns 
they clear out as places to camp if needed, but 
they can also retreat to outside 
the cave. The conjured devils are 
under strict orders to protect the 
caves, so they don’t chase anyone past the cave 
entrance. The Hellknights, on the other hand, 
aren’t bound by any such verbal loopholes. 
They will follow any retreating PCs 
after first tending to their own wounds. 
If the PCs cause any major ruckus, the 
Hellknights might even begin searching 
the caves for the PCs, potentially 
leaving their posts.
G1. CAVE ENTRANCE
A small hill rises here deep within the Chitterwood. At certain 
angles, the trees atop it look like the antlers of a mighty stag, 
but the brush at the base of the trees is black and gnarled, 
as if existing purely out of spite. Slightly hidden behind a tall 
tree is a small cave leading into the hillside.
The cave entrance is easy to find, especially with 
Brakknap’s directions, but the tree does a good job 
of hiding it from the view of anyone not paying close 
attention. The cave entrance is small enough that 
Medium and larger creatures need to duck their heads 
to pass through; this counts as difficult terrain during 
a combat encounter.
G2. MAIN CAVE	
LOW 3
Once past the low cave entrance, the chamber opens up, 
stretching to the north and east, with alcoves in either 
direction. The rough ceiling is little more than 10 feet high, 
though it rises up a few more feet at the eastern end of the 
cave. The old remnants of a makeshift camp can be seen 
to the east.
When Brakknap’s tribe fled from their pursuers, 
they hid mostly in this part of the caves. The northern 
alcove contains a ring of stones that surrounded a fire 
years ago, apparently not having been disturbed in all 
that time. There are a few pieces of carved wood caked 
in moss near the fire pit, indistinguishable trinkets left 
behind by the goblins who sheltered here.
To the east, a pile of rocks blocks an obvious tunnel 
that leads deeper into the caves. This blockade was 
placed here by the cave’s current residents (see area 
G4), having been ordered to block the way by Viro. 
The stones aren’t packed very tightly, and the PCs 
can spend 30 minutes clearing away the stones 
enough to access the tunnel. For each PC who 
succeeds at a DC 22 Athletics check while 
doing so, this time is reduced by 5 minutes.
Creatures: A trio of conjured insidiators 
lurks in the room’s northern alcove, 
waiting for any intruders. They have 
been ordered to attack anyone who 
enters the cave from outside until told 
otherwise by Viro. The devils fight until 
killed but they don’t chase fleeing enemies, 
instead retreating to the eastern alcove 
where it’s difficult to see them from the cave 
entrance.
INSIDIATORS (3)	
CREATURE 1
Page 224
Initiative Perception +10
G3. INTERSECTION
Four tunnels lead off in all directions to and from this 
roughly circular cavern. The northeastern tunnel is a bit 
wider than the other three.
A PC who inspects the four tunnels and succeeds 
at a DC 20 Perception or DC 18 Survival check 
notices that the southern, western, and northeastern 
tunnels have seen a lot more foot traffic in the 
past week. While there is some disturbed dirt and 
stones in the southeastern tunnel, they indicate 
that two people entered the tunnel but only one 
returned. On a critical success, the PC also spots 
a bit of dried blood smeared on the cave wall near 
this end of the southeastern tunnel in area G4; two 
of Viro’s armigers explored that tunnel, which leads 
to a basilisk’s lair. One was killed and the other 
barely escaped to tell the tale. The basilisk wasn’t 
threatened enough to hunt down its fleeing prey and 
the armigers avoid that chamber.
G4. BASILISK LAIR	
MODERATE 3
A pile of nearly equally sized rocks have been piled neatly 
in the northern end of this cavern. The southern part of 
this chamber holds a small alcove that is covered with 
thick moss. The shattered remains of a stone statue of an 
armored figure lies scattered in the center of the floor.
The body here is one of the Hellknight armigers 
Viro brought with him, petrified and killed by the 
basilisk that resides in this cave.
 Fiendish Tree

===== Page 60 =====
59
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Creatures: A singular basilisk feasts on whatever 
prey has the misfortune to enter this cavern. The 
ornery creature wants only to be left alone and doesn’t 
follow enemies who leave their lair.
BASILISK	
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder Monster Core 39
Initiative Perception +11
Treasure: If the PCs defeat the basilisk, they find a 
crying angel pendant and a bejeweled helmet worth 
30 gp.
G5. NATURAL STEPS
This tunnel opens up to the west, where a set of natural 
stone steps have been carved out by millennia of erosion. 
The occasional drop of water from the ceiling makes these 
steps slightly damp. A passageway leads north.
Each of the stone steps to the west is about 6 feet 
tall and, due to their slipperiness, requires a successful 
DC 18 Athletics check to Climb. The tunnel to the 
north narrows as it enters area G7, but not so much that 
Medium creatures need to Squeeze through. The water 
dripping from the ceiling is from a natural aquifer that 
runs north through the rock to area G10, creating the 
waterfall there. In time, the water will erode the stone 
away enough to turn these steps into a new waterfall.
Treasure: A small glint from the top of the chamber is 
noticeable with a successful DC 18 Perception check. A 
PC who climbs up to examine it finds a shining symbol.
G6. ROCKFALL	
MODERATE 3
A possible tunnel collapse filled the eastern section of this 
wide cave with tightly packed rubble. A pair of bedrolls 
have been placed on the ground along the northern wall.
Decades ago, there was a tunnel leading between 
this cave and area G9, but it collapsed. The rubble has 
settled in for so long, it would take months of work 
with heavy picks and shovels to excavate the passage.
The Hellknights here have a hooded lantern lit by 
the bedrolls. The space within 30 feet of it is in bright 
light, with dim light for an additional 30 feet.
Creatures: The bedrolls belong to the Hellknight 
armigers Viro has stationed here to monitor the 
basilisk in area G4. All of them believe Viro is a full 
Hellknight who bravely vanquished his attackers 
during the tactical retreat from Breachill. At least two 
of the armigers are on watch at all times, but when the 
PCs arrive, they are all awake and in their armor. If the 
PCs spend 10 minutes examining the skeleton in area 
G7, there’s a 50% chance that one of the armigers here 
spots them and initiates a fight.
The armigers fervently engage in battle, attempting 
to flank the toughest PC and bring them down before 
focusing on the others. However, if a different PC is 
easily hitting one of them, that Hellknight turns their 
attention to this PC. The adjutant armigers fight to the 
death, but the novice armiger tries to flee if reduced to 
4 or fewer Hit Points. If the only avenue of escape is 
through area G4, the novice surrenders instead.
NOVICE HELLKNIGHT ARMIGER	
CREATURE 1
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Female human soldier
Perception +7
Languages Common, Diabolic
Hellknight Armiger

===== Page 61 =====
60
Skills Athletics +7, Hell Lore +4, Intimidation +6, Society 
+4, Survival +6
Str +4, Dex, +0, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +1, Cha +1
Items breastplate, crossbow (15 bolts), morningstar, steel 
shield (Hardness 5, HP 20 [BT 10])
AC 15 (17 with shield raised); Fort +10, Ref +4, Will +7
HP 20; Resistances mental 2
Shield Block [reaction]
Speed 20 feet
Melee [one-action] morningstar +8 (versatile P), Damage 1d6+4 
bludgeoning
Melee [one-action] fist +8 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 
1d4+4 bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] crossbow +5 (range increment 120 feet), 
Damage 1d8 piercing
ADJUTANT HELLKNIGHT ARMIGERS (2)	 CREATURE 2
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Male human soldiers
Perception +8
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Athletics +8, Hell Lore +5, Intimidation +7, Society 
+5, Survival +7
Str +4, Dex, +0, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +1
Items breastplate, crossbow (10 bolts), halberd
AC 17; Fort +11, Ref +5, Will +8
HP 30; Resistances mental 3
Reactive Strike [reaction]
Speed 20 feet
Melee [one-action] halberd +9 (reach 10 feet, versatile S), Damage 
1d10+4 piercing
Melee [one-action] fist +9 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 1d4+4 
bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] crossbow +6 (range increment 120 feet), Damage 
1d8 piercing
Pinning Strike [one-action] The adjutant Hellknight armiger 
makes a halberd Strike. On a success, the target is 
also immobilized until the beginning of the adjutant’s 
next turn, until the adjutant moves more than 10 feet 
away from the target, or the adjutant makes another 
halberd Strike, whichever comes first. The target can 
also attempt to Escape (DC 18).
G7. ANCIENT GRAVE
Passageways lead southeast, southwest, and north from 
this bean-shaped cavern. The floor here is mostly smooth 
stone, with the exception of a patch of uneven ground in 
which a humanoid skeleton is embedded. One bony arm 
reaches up toward the ceiling, as if calling for aid.
Centuries ago, when Kellids occupied most of the 
land that would become Isger, these caves were near 
a popular hunting ground. One day after a torrential 
downpour, a Kellid ranger fell through an unexpected 
sinkhole into this chamber. This Kellid died here, 
reaching for help that would not come, and their 
bones were partially preserved by the stone. A PC who 
spends 10 minutes and succeeds at a DC 18 Medicine 
or DC 16 Archaeology Lore check can determine 
the skeleton’s broken legs are the result of a fall. The 
sinkhole has since been sealed by time and shifting 
earth, but a PC who succeeds at a DC 22 Perception 
or DC 20 Survival check while examining the ceiling 
can see the barest hint of what was once a hole leading 
to the surface.
Treasure: A PC who examines the skeleton also 
finds a quiver that ironically holds two climbing bolts.
G8. GLOWING COLUMN	
LOW 3
A slightly glowing stone column connecting floor to 
ceiling is the only notable feature of this irregular-shaped 
chamber. The surface of the column is rough and full of 
millions of small divots, like pumice. Several alcoves in 
the walls have a similar texture. Tunnels lead west, east, 
and south.
The column here has absorbed some of the potential 
magic power from deeper in the cave and so gives off a 
faint, eerie glow, casting the room into dim light. Every 
so often, a flicker of this energy moves from one of 
the indentations in the stone to another, appearing as 
a translucent, glowing worm. When this occurs, the 
squares adjacent to the pillar become bright light for 
1 round.
Light of the Glow Worms: In a combat encounter, 
roll a DC 15 flat check at the start of each round. On 
a success, a glow worm appears and the DC of the 
next flat check increases by 1. On a failure, reduce the 
DC of the next flat check by 1. A PC can attempt a 
DC 17 Arcana or Nature check to Recall Knowledge 
about the column, learning of this strange property. A 
PC adjacent to the column can then Interact with it 
and attempt a DC 15 Arcana or Nature check, coaxing 
forth a glowing worm with a success; on a critical 
success, a glowing worm remains on the surface of the 
pillar for 1 minute, instead of 1 round.
Creatures: Though the magic of the column is fairly 
inconsequential, one of Viro’s Hellknight armiger 
allies became convinced that the stone harbors a 
deeper secret. She has been studying the column for 
several days, trying to discover more about the stone’s 
magical properties, but has yet to be successful. 
Recently, she borrowed a conjured pair of orts to test 
whether their fiendish forms could affect the light in

===== Page 62 =====
61
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
some way. She has been ordering them to interact in 
all manner of ways with the column, from biting it to 
standing with a hand on it while she strikes the other 
side. These experiments have yielded no results, 
but the Hellknight armiger is determined 
to uncover the nonexistent truth. This 
focus means that she doesn’t notice 
the PCs in area G7, unless they’re 
fighting the Hellknights from area 
G6 there.
The Hellknight armiger orders 
the orts to fight until they are 
destroyed, which they mindlessly 
do. If she is reduced to 5 or fewer 
Hit Points, she tries to retreat 
to area G10 to get help and will 
surrender if cornered.
ORTS (2)
CREATURE 0
Pathfinder Monster Core 86
Initiative Perception +0
ADJUTANT HELLKNIGHT ARMIGER	
CREATURE 2
Page 60
Initiative Perception +8
Treasure: The curious Hellknight armiger collected 
precious stones and odd natural minerals she found in 
the cave into a large sack, worth a total of 60 gp.
G9. HIDDEN LEDGE
This chamber dead-ends in a pile of fallen rubble where 
perhaps a tunnel once lead south. A curving passage leads 
west and large curtains of moss hang down from various 
spots on the cave ceiling.
The tunnel to the south used to lead to area G6, 
but it collapsed long ago and is now impassable. The 
rubble has been compacted by decades of the weight 
of the hillside pressing down on it.
A PC who succeeds at a DC 20 Perception check 
while Searching the room notices that one of the 
curtains of moss hanging down from the ceiling 
conceals a small passageway going north. This hole is 
about 4 feet high and 5 feet wide and is about 10 feet 
from the ground. A successful DC 14 Athletics check 
is required to Climb the wall under it, and the passage 
is treated as difficult terrain for Medium creatures, 
while Large creatures will need to Squeeze through. 
However, this tunnel leads to a ledge in area G11 that 
might allow the PCs to get the drop on Viro, provided 
they don’t make too much noise.
G10. UNDERGROUND WATERFALL	 MODERATE 3
The sound of splashing water fills this cavern due to 
the 20-foot-tall waterfall coursing down the 
wall from the ceiling to the northwest. The 
water collects in a pool, near which a 
pair of bedrolls have been set up on 
the ground. Thick logs have been 
pulled into the cave to form a couple 
of barricades. Two tunnels exit this 
chamber to the east.
The small aquifer that runs 
above the caves comes through 
the ceiling here to form a gentle 
waterfall. The water collects in a 
pond in the northern part of the 
cave, which slowly drains into the earth. The 
bottom of the pool is lined with mossy rocks and is 
home to a tiny number of cave fish that are no more 
than an inch long.
Viro has commanded his most loyal armiger allies 
to set up a guard post in this room, thinking it’s the 
only way to get to the cave in which he performs his 
ritual. Their bedrolls lie near the northern exit, far 
enough away from the splashing waterfall to stay dry, 
and a lit hooded lantern near them lights the area with 
30 feet of bright light and 30 more feet of dim light. 
They have also dragged a few thick logs from the 
forest outside here to create a couple of makeshift but 
defensible barricades. Crossing through a square with 
one of these logs is difficult terrain, but a creature can 
use them to Take Cover. A 5-foot section of log has 
Hardness 5, 20 Hit Points, and a BT of 10, but they 
are damp enough not to be set easily alight. A broken 
section of log is no longer difficult terrain and can’t be 
used to Take Cover.
Creatures: Viro left an experienced adjutant 
Hellknight armiger in charge of the room’s defense, 
along with a novice armiger and a conjured insidiator. 
The two Hellknights are behind the northern 
barricades when the PCs enter the room, but the 
insidiator attempts to hide in the southeast alcove to 
catch intruders unaware.
The sound of the waterfall is enough to cover most 
of the sounds of combat from other rooms, but if 
the armigers do hear something from area G8, they 
remain here, as part of their orders. However, the 
adjutant armiger will send the novice armiger to 
investigate any unusual noises coming from area G11 
after 1 round, and then follow 2 rounds later if the 
novice armiger doesn’t report back. The insidiator 
doesn’t leave this chamber.
Hidden Ledge

===== Page 63 =====
62
Viro’s allies don’t begin a fight here until most 
of the PCs have entered the room. The adjutant 
armiger remains behind the barricade and fires 
several bolts before drawing his halberd and 
entering melee. The novice armiger charges 
out from behind cover to try to flank 
with the insidiator, who makes their first 
attacks from hiding if they’re not 
noticed before that. The insidiator 
fights until destroyed, and the 
zealous novice armiger refuses to 
surrender. The adjutant armiger 
tries to retreat to area G11 if 
reduced to fewer than 6 Hit Points 
unless he knows that Viro Ahala 
has already been defeated, in 
which case he fights to the death.
INSIDIATOR
CREATURE 1
Page 224
Initiative Perception +10
NOVICE HELLKNIGHT ARMIGER
CREATURE 1
Page 59
Initiative Perception +7
ELITE ADJUTANT HELLKNIGHT ARMIGER	 CREATURE 3
Page 60, Pathfinder Monster Core 6
Initiative Perception +10
Treasure: Among the Hellknights’ possessions by 
the bedrolls is a silver chunk and a pouch containing 
15 gp.
G11. RITUAL SITE
SEVERE 3
Candlelight flickers along the perimeter of this large 
chamber and the cave is infused with the scent of 
brimstone. Two men occupy the room, one in the typical 
accoutrements of a Hellknight armiger and another 
dressed in the formidable armor of a Hellknight. The 
false Hellknight stands over an ivory bowl that contains 
a bright flame in the center of the room, scattered ritual 
materials piled nearby atop a rough blanket on the stone 
floor. The air above it wavers with occult energy as he 
methodically burns a piece of parchment that has been 
inscribed with blood.
Viro Ahala chose this cave for his ritual site as it 
courses with magical energy that has gone largely 
untapped for centuries. The flame in the ivory bowl 
and the candles together provide bright light for the 
chamber. A ledge at the back of the chamber requires 
a successful DC 14 Athletics check to Climb, and 
hidden from view from the ground on this ledge is 
a tight tunnel that leads south to area G9. The 
top of the ledge is in dim light, so Viro and 
his companions are unaware of the tunnel.
Creatures: If given the opportunity to 
speak before being attacked, Viro gloats 
that the PCs are too late to stop his 
ritual in an attempt to Demoralize 
the physically most intimidating 
PC. If the PCs disable the ritual 
backlash hazard before defeating 
Viro, he becomes off-guard for 1 
round and drained 1. Viro and his 
fellow armiger won’t surrender, 
fighting to the bitter end.
Hazard: Viro Ahala has been 
performing a complicated ritual here for 
several days, one that will grant him 
only a fraction of the power of Hell, 
but enough to get his revenge on the Hellbreakers 
League. He has yet to be successful, but his attempts 
have caused the magical energy of the cave to 
become erratic. His attention to the flame within 
the ivory bowl, the focus of the ritual, has kept the 
energy in check, but the moment he becomes even 
momentarily distracted, the backlash manifests. 
Because Viro has been pouring his mental energy 
into the ritual all this time, the backlash harms only 
his enemies. If the ivory bowl is broken, the hazard 
loses 1 action. If the ivory bowl is destroyed, the 
hazard loses 2 actions.
Brakknap’s Crystal: The crystal Brakknap gave 
the PCs provides a small amount of protection and 
the ability to counter some of the ritual’s backlash. 
The PC wearing or holding the crystal, and everyone 
adjacent to them, gains a +1 status bonus to any 
Will saving throw against the hazard’s Pulse of Fear 
ability, and resistance 2 to mental damage caused 
by the ritual’s mindburn Strike. They also gain the 
following reaction.
Rebuke Hellish Healing [reaction] (primal) Trigger The ritual 
backlash hazard uses Vitality of Hell on a target within 
10 feet; Effect Attempt a DC 16 Nature or Religion check. 
On a success, Vitality of Hell is counteracted. On a 
critical success, the target of Vitality of Hell takes 1d6 
fire damage.
RITUAL BACKLASH	
HAZARD 1
COMPLEX
MAGICAL
 TRAP
Stealth +5 (trained)
Description The space above the flame in the ivory bowl 
wavers and the smell of brimstone assaults the senses.
Ritual Bowl

===== Page 64 =====
63
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Disable DC 20 Occultism or Religion three times to 
suppress the backlash of energy, or defeat Viro Ahala
AC 17; Fort +11, Ref +4
Hardness 8 (ivory bowl); HP 26 (BT 13); Immunities critical 
hits, object immunities, precision damage
Lash Out [reaction] Trigger Viro Ahala rolls initiative; Effect Viro’s 
lack of full attention unleashes the latent magical energy 
of the cave. The hazard creates a Pulse of Fear and then 
rolls initiative.
Routine (3 actions) The hazard makes a ranged mindburn 
Strike, creates a Pulse of Fear, and bestows Vitality of Hell 
to Viro or one of his allies at random. If it’s reduced to 2 
actions, the hazard doesn’t create a Pulse of Fear. If reduced 
to 1 action, the hazard only bestows Vitality of Hell.
Ranged [one-action] mindburn +9 (mental, occult, range increment 
30 feet), Damage 1d8+1 mental
Pulse of Fear [one-action] (emotion, fear, mental, occult) Each of 
Viro’s enemies in a 20-foot emanation from the ivory 
bowl must succeed at a DC 18 Will save or become 
frightened 1 (frightened 2 on a critical failure).
Vitality of Hell [one-action] (healing, occult, vitality) Viro or one of 
his allies gains 1d6 temporary Hit Points that last for 
1 round.
Reset Once Viro Ahala has been defeated, this trap can’t 
be reset.
NOVICE HELLKNIGHT ARMIGER	
CREATURE 1
Page 59
Initiative Perception +7
VIRO AHALA	
CREATURE 5
Page 246
Initiative Perception +12
Reward: For stopping Viro’s ritual, the PCs earn 2 
Reputation Points.
Treasure: The materials Viro was using for his ritual 
include three rubies that are worth 10 gp each.
A Victorious Return
Once Viro Ahala has been defeated and his ritual 
stopped, the PCs can explore other parts of Stagfall 
Caves or immediately return to Thorngrip to tell 
Brakknap the good news. The goblin oracle is already 
aware of their success from the spirits of his ancestors, 
and the entire town comes out to meet the PCs as 
they step through the thorn wall. The PCs are treated 
as heroes and there’s an evening of celebration, 
especially if they need to rest for a night to tend to 
their wounds before leaving the Chitterwood. The 
PCs are especially treated well by the goblin children 
who have never met non-goblinoids before, as they 
are curious about the heroes and beg the party for 
dramatic retellings and reenactments of their defeat of 
Viro and his fiendish allies. Some children might even 
dress up as a specific PC. Food and drink is plentiful 
all throughout the night; the pickle-flavored goblin 
liquor is especially strong, and a few PCs might wake 
feeling a little worse than when they went to sleep. 
Luckily, Mirdona has surefire hangover cure, which 
also tastes of pickles.
The PCs should then return to Saringallow to 
debrief with Rhokrag and the other Hellbreakers. 
They listen with interest as the PCs recount their 
travels, with Maire taking notes for future stories. 
Rhokrag is pleased with their success, especially with 
the friendship the PCs forged with the Thorngrip 
goblins, and lets them know that the Demetriases 
want to speak with them directly. At their earliest 
convenience, the PCs should head north to Elidir, 
where the Hellbreakers League founders await.
At this point, tally the PCs’ current Reputation 
Point total. They will have the opportunity to gain (or 
lose) Reputation Points in the coming chapters, but it 
will be helpful to have a snapshot of the League’s 
reputation in Isger after the PCs’ actions; this total is 
also an extrapolation of how the other teams did in 
other areas of the country.
Fewer than 6 RP The Hellbreakers League is 
still seen as dangerous troublemakers by most 
citizens. The PCs have to travel north incognito.
7–9 RP Most people don’t believe the League 
wants to burn down every Isgeri city, but neither 
do they fully trust its members. The PCs are 
better not to draw attention to their affiliation 
for now.
10–12 RP Those who want to throw off the yoke of 
Chelaxian rule feel more comfortable speaking 
out, thanks to the efforts of the Hellbreakers 
League. The PCs won’t need to worry about the 
bounty on their capture, except in areas of deep 
Chelaxian loyalty.
13+ RP Talk of Isgeri independence is on everyone’s 
lips! The Hellbreakers League are considered the 
best chance for the future. Some citizens are still 
loyal to Steward Hedvend and Cheliax, but they 
might soon be a minority. The PCs are celebrated 
nearly everywhere they go.
Reward: For defeating Viro Ahala and stopping his 
ritual, award the PCs 40 XP. If the PCs have a total 
of at least 15 Reputation Points, award the PCs an 
additional 40 XP.
Treasure: Brakknap gifts the crystal pendant to the 
PCs, which has served its initial purpose and awakens 
into a pendant of the occult.

===== Page 65 =====
64
While the PCs were busy in the south of Isger, events 
were also unfolding in the capital, Elidir. Alceo 
Demetrias (wise male aiuvarin cleric of Milani 7) 
and Phoebe Demetrias (righteous female human 
warrior 7), the leaders of the Hellbreakers League, 
have been organizing resistance at the heart of the 
country’s critical trade route. The husband and wife 
have led numerous protests over the hardships faced 
by those outside the Conerica Straits and the Isgeri 
government’s Cheliax-centric policies. They seek to 
sow dissent against the country’s self-interested elites 
while generating support and finding recruits for the 
Hellbreakers League.
As part of their efforts, they have made tentative 
contact with a Druman trader named Quoster 
Thistlewait (opportunistic male halfling merchant 4), 
who has a strong distaste for Cheliax due to its history 
of slavery and iron grip on the Conerica River trade 
routes. He is willing to provide supplies in return for a 
lucrative trade deal when Isger is free of Cheliax.
The protests and disruptions caused by the PCs 
to the south have alarmed Hedvend VI. He’s used 
the army to crack down on gatherings, and then 
used the resulting clashes and bloodshed caused by 
his own forces to characterize the League as violent 
revolutionaries. Painting largely peaceful protests 
as vicious riots, he dubbed Alceo and Phoebe the 
Riotmongers, and placed a bounty on their heads. 
Unable to act freely, Alceo and Phoebe call for the PCs 
to come to Elidir.
Though Hedvend has the city on high alert, he 
is simultaneously trying to convince its citizens—
and Caeto Vulaunex (self-righteous male human 
Hellknight 11), who has newly returned to the country 
Chapter 4:
Into the Jaws

===== Page 66 =====
65
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
from Cheliax—that the city and country remain firmly 
under his control. As part of his front, he announced 
plans for a gala in his manor to mark the 25th 
anniversary of the Hellknights agreeing to march to 
Isger’s rescue during the Goblinblood Wars.
Unbeknownst to Hedvend and his political 
opponents, Illcayna Alonnor (malevolent female 
daughter of Urgathoa 9) has determined the time is 
right to claim the country in the name of Urgathoa. 
Her follower Ezio Gaeta (crafty male vampire spy 
7) plans to lay waste to guests at Hedvend’s gala, 
destabilizing the country for his master’s plans.
Getting Started
Chapter 4 begins when the PCs are summoned by 
Rhokrag to the Hellbreakers League headquarters.
“I have something new for you all. While we’ve been 
working here, Alceo and Phoebe Demetrias have been 
trying to stir up the capital. But they’ve run into trouble—
the authorities figured out who they are, and they can’t 
work freely anymore.
“They asked me to send a few Hellbreakers I trust to get 
things done. You’ve shown your skill and smarts the last 
few months; we need you in Elidir now. Phoebe says the 
army is on high alert, and while they mostly ignore us out 
here in the hinterlands, they keep a tight grip on the capital 
and the rest of the Conerica Straits. Whatever you do, keep 
a low profile and do not get identified as League members. 
Once you get into Elidir, go to the Isgeri Circle and wait. 
Alceo and Phoebe will have someone checking for you who 
can bring you to their safe house.”
He shakes his head. “Get going. Hedvend’s throwing a 
gala in about ten days and he doesn’t know it, but you’re 
on the guest list.”
Rhokrag can’t answer many questions as the message 
purposely didn’t have much detail. He urges the PCs to 
leave immediately, as it’s a three-day journey to Elidir, 
and gives them a lifting belt for the mission. The trip 
to the capital passes uneventfully, though if your PCs 
need more Experience Points to reach 4th level, you 
can have them encounter bandits, wild animals, roving 
undead, or some other such encounter on the way.
ELIDIR’S STATUS
An open rebellion is closer than ever in Isger’s capital, 
but the army is working hard to maintain order. It’s 
not full-out martial law in the city as Hedvend tries 
to maintain some semblance of normalcy, but tensions 
are high. To reflect these competing pressures while 
in Elidir, the PCs accumulate both Uprising Points, 
which measure how successful they are in hampering 
Hedvend’s activities and recruiting Hellbreakers, 
and Suppression Points, which measure the army’s 
awareness of them and ability to quash dissent (refer 
to Victory Points in GM Core 184–185).
As the PCs reach certain thresholds, they discover 
opportunities or face additional complications. The 
points and thresholds accumulate concurrently.
Uprising Points
When the PCs’ Uprising Points reach each threshold 
for the first time, they gain the listed benefit. Each 
benefit can be used once by each PC and the PC must 
be in an area where popular support could affect 
the situation. This criteria is determined at the GM’s 
discretion; for example, it might be allowed while on 
Elidir’s streets or in the Gyve prison, but not in the 
steward’s manor.
1. Sedition (1–3 RP): While in Elidir, each PC can add +1 to 
a skill check or Perception check after they have rolled.
2. Subversion (4–6 RP): While in Elidir, each PC can add +1 
to an attack roll or saving throw after they have rolled.
3. Insurrection (7–9 RP): While in Elidir, each PC can reroll 
a check after they have rolled. They must use the second 
result, even if it’s worse. This has the fortune trait.
4. Revolution (10–12 RP): While in Elidir, each PC can roll 
a check twice and take the better result. This has the 
fortune trait.
Suppression Points
When the PCs’ Suppression Points reach each threshold, 
the effects of the government’s opposition make their 
work more difficult. The effects of each threshold are 
cumulative, but end if the PC’s Suppression Points 
total goes down, reducing the threshold. If a PC kills 
someone, they must attempt a DC 10 flat check; on a 
failure, they gain a Suppression Point.
1. Repression (1–3 SP): Outside of combat, the DC of any 
skill or Perception checks involving another humanoid 
are increased by 1.
2. Paranoia (4–6 SP): During the gala, the number of 
Influence Points to reach each threshold increases by 1.
3. Crackdown (7–9 SP): Each time the PCs go in the city 
streets, the GM rolls a DC 5 flat check; on a failure the 
PCs face the Papers, Please encounter below.
4. Martial Law (10–12 SP): Outside of combat, the DC of any 
skill or Perception checks involving another humanoid 
are increased by 1 (for a total of 2).
PAPERS, PLEASE	
MODERATE 4
Harassment by Cheliax loyalists is the status quo as 
the authorities try to quash dissent in the city. The PCs 
are approached by such loyalists looking to impress 
their superiors.

===== Page 67 =====
66
ISGERI CIRCLE
ISGERI CIRCLE
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
H7
H7
H6
H6
H5
H5
H8
H8
H3
H3
H2
H2
H1
H1
H4
H4
LOVE STING PRINTING HOUSE
LOVE STING PRINTING HOUSE
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
HOUSE OF FOUND FAMILY: SECOND FLOOR
HOUSE OF FOUND FAMILY: SECOND FLOOR
HOUSE OF FOUND FAMILY: FIRST FLOOR
HOUSE OF FOUND FAMILY: FIRST FLOOR
THE SILVER RIBBON
THE SILVER RIBBON
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 68 =====
67
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Creatures: PCs face an adiutor (page 222) and 
infantry soldier, who try to arrest the PCs for 
“suspicious activities.” The PCs can successfully 
explain their presence on the street with a successful 
DC 19 Deception or Diplomacy check, or DC 21 
Intimidation check; each DC is increased by 3 in 
Chapter 6. On a failure, the patrol attacks.
ADIUTOR
CREATURE 5
Page 222
Initiative Perception +13
INFANTRY SOLDIER
CREATURE 2
Pathfinder NPC Core 88
Initiative Perception +8
Entering the City
As the PCs approach the capital, read or paraphrase 
the following.
The Conerica River runs through the capital, bisecting the 
walled city. Ships laden with goods anchor outside huge 
river gates, waiting to enter as small sentry boats row back 
and forth delivering inspectors. Along the roads to Elidir, 
walled caravanserai teem with people, horses, wagons, and 
beasts of burden making use of the inns, stables, and trade 
facilities that facilitate the city’s lifeblood.
The PCs don’t draw any attention in the 
caravanserai outside the city walls as traders come 
and go constantly, with many travelers stopping in 
hopes of joining a caravan. Movement in and out of 
Elidir is tightly restricted, and the PCs must find a way 
past the guards without raising suspicions. The easiest 
way to do so is to join a group entering the city and 
pass through the gates right under the guards’ noses. 
Fortunately for the PCs, several people and groups are 
also looking to enter Elidir, and each has a secret that 
makes them amenable to welcoming a stranger.
Introduce the following groups, then allow each 
PC to attempt a DC 19 Diplomacy check to Gather 
Information or Perception check to learn more about 
one group of their choice. On a success, they learn the 
best skill to pose as part of the group. If a PC sneaks 
in with that group, they can use that skill instead of 
Deception or Performance to fool the guards. On a 
critical success, the PCs also learn the group’s secret. 
Doing so incentivizes the group to help any PCs that 
enter with them, giving each PC a +1 circumstance 
bonus on the subsequent check to make it past the 
guards. Reward the clever use of resources such as 
magical items, feats, and spells with bonuses or even 
an automatic success.
EINEEL HAVENMARK
Description Eineel is a mild-mannered human farmer who 
routinely brings in produce to sell at the market.
Secret Eineel is a smuggler, taking less for her services 
than official fees.
Skill Nature to Command the animals pulling her carts.
JOWARD YATLY
Description Joward is a nervous dwarven trader from 
Absalom with a shipment of wooden clockworks he’s 
been hired to deliver.
Secret Joward is actually Andoren, but fears he’ll be turned 
away due to the conflict between the countries.
Skill Crafting to demonstrate knowledge of the devices.
NORTHERN WARRIORS
Description A half-dozen partisans, led by Maurisno 
Rabesi (eager male human warrior 0), have come from 
northwest Isger to join the army to defend the nation 
from rebels and rabblerousers.
Secret The young hopeful soldiers have almost no actual 
experience with their weapons and are as likely to stab 
themselves as anyone else.
Skill Athletics to show off martial prowess.
THE MENAGERIE OF FEY FANTASTICO
Description The Menagerie is a traveling circus that has 
received permission to enter the city to put on a week’s 
worth of shows.
Secret Several of the troupe are thieves, who use the 
traveling show as cover for their activities.
Skill Acrobatics to pose as a tumbling troupe member.
Once the PCs each join a group, each PC must make 
it past the guards without raising suspicions. They 
can attempt to do so with a DC 17 check with the 
associated skill, or a DC 19 Deception or Performance 
check, with the following results.
Success The PC enters Elidir without raising any suspicions.
Failure The guards’ suspicions are raised. The PCs gain 1 
Suppression Point.
Critical Failure As failure, but the PCs gain 2 Suppression 
Points.
Sneaking In: The PCs can also attempt to enter the 
city by directly sneaking in, but the guards are on high 
alert and this may be more troublesome than blending 
in with other groups. A PC must succeed at two checks 
to enter unnoticed: a DC 19 Stealth check to approach 
unseen, and then a DC 21 Acrobatics or Athletics 
check to either scale the walls or swim through the 
river. They gain 1 Suppression Point for each failure (2 
on a critical failure).

===== Page 69 =====
68
ISGERI CIRCLE	
MODERATE 4
While the Taldans “pacified” the Isgeri in 2133, 
outbreaks of violence continued for some time. To ease 
tensions, the first Taldan governor of Isger allowed 
the Isgeri tribes to create this monument devoted to 
Urgathoa in her guise as a goddess of bounty. Attempts 
to remove it over the ensuing centuries all failed, as 
workers mysteriously grew ill when they approached. 
Most residents of the city now give it a wide berth.
Badly worn carvings of produce such as grapes, apples, 
nuts, and squashes top the ancient standing stones that 
surround a simple stone altar in this clearing.
Unable to safely venture out themselves, Alceo 
and Phoebe enlisted Sarevial (loyal male elf baker’s 
apprentice –1) to check several times each day to see 
if the PCs have arrived. Unfortunately, a guard patrol 
has grown suspicious and closes in when Sarevial 
approaches the PCs.
Creatures: In response to the protests against Cheliax, 
loyalists formed patrols to maintain security. Led by 
adiutors—mortals invested with infernal power also 
known as auxiliary devils—these patrols investigate 
any hints of subversion. They attempt to arrest Sarevial 
and the PCs for questioning. If the adiutor is slain or 
knocked unconscious, his toadies flee. Sarevial doesn’t 
participate in this combat; if you need his stats, use 
those of a commoner (NPC Core 66).
ADIUTOR
CREATURE 5
Page 222
Initiative Perception +13
TOADIES (2)
CREATURE 0
Pathfinder NPC Core 152
Initiative Perception +3
Party Preparations
Once they’ve defeated the guard patrol, Sarevial rushes 
the PCs to Alceo and Phoebe’s safe house. Alceo offers 
to tend to any wounds (via magic or Medicine) the 
PCs might have from the encounter. When everyone’s 
healed up, he gets straight to business.
Alceo takes a deep breath in his seat, Phoebe standing 
protectively behind him. “We’ve spent the past month 
stirring up discontent against Cheliax’s puppet elites 
and the city authorities. There’s been some success, but 
Hedvend’s cracked down on protests and used his own 
army’s violence against the people to frame us as rioters.”
“In some ways that’s helped us,” Phoebe interjects. 
“We’ve been hesitant to officially start a League chapter 
here, but the people are all but demanding one. They need 
someone to organize them and focus their anger, or there 
will be real riots. Unfortunately, Hedvend managed to 
identify us and spread our image around, so we’re handing 
off our operations to you.”
Alceo nods. “The immediate problem is that we were on 
the verge of arranging a deal with a Druman merchant, 
Quoster, to supply the League in return for certain trade 
rights once we’ve liberated Isger. Unfortunately, Hedvend 
outing us has spooked him. He wants proof of our abilities, 
and is demanding we show them by meeting him at 
Hedvend’s upcoming gala. You’ll have to make that meeting 
in our place and negotiate a deal that benefits both sides.”
Operating out of the safe house, the PCs must 
acquire three things before the gala at Steward 
Hedvend VI’s manor home, Reevesrest: forged 
invitations, appropriate costumes, and the lazybones 
pendant (page 211) that Quoster supplied for Alceo 
and Phoebe to identify themselves. These can be done 
in any order, and Alceo and Phoebe try to answer any 
questions the PCs have. Likely questions and their 
responses are as follows.
How were you identified? “We’re not sure,” Phoebe 
says. “Our best guess is someone we were working 
with was caught and broke in the Gyve.”
The Gyve? “It’s the prison.” Alceo’s face twists with 
disgust. “An awful place known for torturing those 
who end up there until the wardens hear what they 
want to hear.”
What can you tell us about Quoster? “He’s a halfling 
and motivated more by self-interest than concern for 
Isger. But he’s willing to help, and everything we’ve 
been able to learn about him makes us think we can 
trust him.”
Where’s the necklace? “Safely tucked away above a 
print shop called Love Sting. They make some saucy 
novels.” Phoebe grins and Alceo’s ears go pink.
CITY MAPS
Elidir is a large city, and it’s possible the PCs get 
into fights in areas that aren’t mapped (especially 
if you add some random encounters with guards). 
GMs who prefer premade maps can use flip-mats 
and flip-tiles to create suitable maps in moments. 
Some particularly useful maps are noted below.
•	 GameMastery Flip-Mat: City Square
•	 Pathfinder Flip-Mat Classics: City Streets
•	 Pathfinder Flip-Tiles: Urban Slums Expansion
•	 Pathfinder Flip-Tiles: Urban Starter Set
•	 Pathfinder Flip-Mat: City Districts Multi-Pack

===== Page 70 =====
69
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
What should we do about starting a League chapter? 
“The more immediate concern is Quoster and the gala. 
After that, look for recruits and sign up as many as 
you safely can. We trust you can handle it.”
After answering questions (or if asked 
what they’ll be doing), Alceo and Phoebe 
inform the PCs they plan to leave Elidir the 
morning of the gala, making a show of it to 
draw attention away from the Hellbreakers 
League’s continuing activities in the city. In 
the meantime, they’ll remain in the safe house 
and transition operations to the PCs.
OPERATION: THE INVITATION OF 
THE SEASON
The PCs need invitations to the gala! 
Fortunately for them, Alceo and Phoebe 
already did most of the legwork and 
know that a clerk at the city tax office, Orimos (petty 
nonbinary hellspawn nephilim human tax clerk 0), 
is responsible for the invites. They suggest the PCs 
approach Orimos with the truth, but warn that the 
clerk is wary of upsetting the authorities, so the PCs 
need to be subtle.
During the day, the PCs can find Orimos laboring in 
the Trade House, a bustling hive of bureaucracy filled 
with government officials, merchants, guards, and others 
coming and going with arms full of paperwork. The 
clerk is publicly officious and uninterested in discussing 
whatever trivial matter the PCs are bothering them with.
The easiest way to get them into somewhere private 
is to present them with a seemingly legitimate bit 
of paperwork, a tax problem, or other such minor 
governmental issue that they would normally discuss 
in a private office, which a PC can do with a successful 
DC 17 Accounting Lore or Legal Lore check or DC 
19 Society check. Alternatively, they can persuade 
Orimos to take them somewhere else with a successful 
DC 21 Deception check to Impersonate an official 
on a legitimate task or to Lie about their reasons for 
needing to speak with Orimos, DC 21 Diplomacy check 
to Make an Impression to make them friendly, or a 
DC 21 Intimidation check to Coerce them into a private 
conversation. On a critical failure, the PC takes a –1 
circumstance penalty to any future checks they make 
with Orimos. If at any point the PCs bring up Alceo, 
Phoebe, or the Hellbreakers League, they frighten the 
clerk and the DC of all checks to get them somewhere 
private increases by 1.
Alternatively, the PCs might stake out the office and 
follow Orimos to somewhere they can talk in private, 
such as Orimos’s home. If the PCs get Orimos to 
somewhere private and earn their trust, the PCs can 
reveal their true needs. At that point, Orimos drops 
their facade and reveals themself to be petty and eager 
to harm the elites of Cheliax and Isger, whom they 
hate for making their life difficult. They easily 
provide invitations to the PCs.
If the PCs fail to persuade Orimos to talk 
privately, the clerk sighs deeply before giving 
them one more chance. They urge whichever 
PC came closest to succeeding at their check 
to lean in, and then whispers that if the PCs’ 
concerns are urgent enough, they should put 
their money where their mouth is. 
With an appropriate bribe—3 
gp per PC—Orimos provides the 
invitations.
Reward: If the PCs acquire the invitations 
without needing to resort to a bribe, award them 
40 XP.
OPERATION: DRESS TO IMPRESS	
LOW 4
Proper attire lets the PCs fit in at the gala—and even 
bring in weapons and armor if it fits their costume. 
Alceo and Phoebe direct the PCs to Reirsumli 
Brightgate (meek male dwarf tailor 1) at his shop, the 
Silver Ribbon. Phoebe saved Reirsumli’s life during the 
Goblinblood Wars, and he owes her greatly. The PCs 
can tell him that the costumes are for Phoebe and he’ll 
happily make them for free.
The PCs must describe what they want their outfits 
to look like; give each PC a chance to describe their 
devilish garb and attempt a relevant DC 19 check 
to fully explain their vision. The PCs will also need 
costumes for any animal companions, familiars, or 
other creatures in their party as well.
Appropriate checks for costume design are Religion 
to describe a devil costume, Society to describe a 
Hellknight or other proper Chelaxian figure, or 
Crafting or Performance for a general sense of what 
they’re trying to achieve. The party needs to make a 
number of checks equal to the number of PCs, but the 
checks can be made by a single PC and the PCs can 
attempt to Aid each other. If anyone expresses concern 
about bringing larger weapons or armor into the gala, 
Reirsumli suggests dressing as a Hellknight or vordine. 
He tells the PCs to return just before the gala and he’ll 
have the costumes ready.
Whenever the PCs return, they find a well-dressed 
man with two hulking bodyguards in the shop 
confronting Reirsumli. He spotted the PCs’ outfits set 
out to be handed over and demanded them for himself!
To retrieve their costumes, the PCs must dissuade the 
noble by flattery, fear, or force. Each PC can attempt 
a DC 21 Deception or Diplomacy check to persuade 
Orimos

===== Page 71 =====
70
the noble with kindness, or a DC 21 Athletics or 
Intimidation check to make them rethink their 
acquisitiveness. If the PCs get a number of successes 
equal to half the number of PCs, the noble backs off. If 
not, he decides to teach the PCs a lesson and attacks! 
Use the map on page 66 for this encounter.
Creatures: The noble and his guards aren’t looking 
to kill the PCs, just teach them their place. They use 
their attacks with the nonlethal trait as long as the 
PCs do. If the noble is knocked unconscious, his two 
bodyguards retreat with him. If he’s killed, the PCs’ 
Suppression Points increase by 1.
NOBLE	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder NPC Core 13
Initiative Perception +11
BODYGUARDS (2)	
CREATURE 1
Pathfinder NPC Core 82
Initiative Perception +8
Treasure: If the PCs successfully dissuade or 
defeat the noble, Reirsumli gives them a +1 armor 
potency rune and raiment rune as thanks. If the PCs 
are defeated, Reirsumli instead provides secondhand 
costumes he has available. The poor display means 
the PCs take a –1 item penalty to skill checks to 
influence or learn about NPCs during the gala.
Reward: If the PCs dissuade the noble from taking 
the costumes, award them XP as if they’d defeated 
him and his guards in combat.
OPERATION: PROPER IDENTIFICATION
Before Alceo and Phoebe were identified by the 
authorities, Quoster sent them a lazybones pendant 
for them to wear as a sign of what he could provide, 
and a way of recognizing them when they finally 
met. The PCs need to collect it from where it’s being 
stored in a room above Love Sting Printing House, 
a one-elf publisher of “copper dalliances,” incredibly 
popular smutty serials with titles like The Archer All 
Aquiver, His Longsword of Love, and The Allure 
of Secret Sects, which sell for a copper apiece.
Unfortunately for the PCs, the room was 
looted by a thieves’ guild known as the Children’s 
Charity. Worse, the PCs arrive at the site just after 
an odvolos has decided that copper dalliances are a 
bad influence on the people of Elidir. Use the map on 
page 66 for this encounter.
LOVE STING PRINTING HOUSE	
MODERATE 4
Read or paraphrase the following as the PCs 
approach Love Sting Printing House.
A high-pitched voice pleads, “Please, you don’t have to 
do this! They’re just harmless entertainment!” A bruised 
elf lies crumpled in the snow in front of a shop. A trail of 
smoke wafts out the shop’s door.
Creatures: The elven man is a Calistrian devotee 
named Ievis (romantic male elf author 1), the writer, 
artist, and publisher of the copper dalliances. If 
the PCs attempt to enter the building or help him, 
a goblin calls out to the odvolos, who is torching 
unsold pamphlets inside, and attacks. The odvolos 
emerges and joins the battle, trying to prevent PCs 
from entering the building.
Hazard: The fire is spreading inside, threatening 
to destroy the entire building, including the safe 
house on the second floor. Though it’s inside, 
it’s included as part of this encounter due 
to the PCs’ need to stop it from spreading. 
Eliminating the hazard requires dousing the 
flames. Water clears a 5-foot square if the amount 
Devil Dress

===== Page 72 =====
71
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
is small (such as that from create water or hydraulic 
push). Larger amounts of water, such as a full bucket, 
douse a 10-foot-by-10-foot area. Throwing 
a bucket of water on flames requires an 
Interact action. A waterskin doesn’t contain 
enough water to put out even 1 
square of fire. Cold can also put 
out fire, but only if the cold can 
affect an area; cold is usually less 
effective than water, so a frost vial 
typically puts out 1 square of fire, 
and frostbite is ineffective.
Four large barrels of oak gall 
ink near the entrance offer gallons 
of nonflammable liquid PCs can use to 
fight the fire. A bucket hangs on the wall near each 
barrel, which the PCs can fill with ink with an 
Interact action. Each barrel contains enough ink to 
fill 20 buckets.
Other methods might also help control the fire, as 
you determine. For example, the PCs might be able 
to find something to barricade the fire with to control 
its path, or use a cloak to beat out some of the fire.
ODVOLOS	
CREATURE 5
Page 227
Initiative Perception +12
GOBLIN PYRO	
CREATURE 1
Pathfinder Monster Core 175
Initiative Perception +12
SPREADING FIRE	
HAZARD 1
COMPLEX
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth –10; initiative modifier is +5
Description A fire engulfs a 5-foot-by-5-foot area, then 
spreads on each of its turns.
Disable DC 17 Athletics to splash the barrels of gall ink on 
the fire or DC 15 Survival to smother the flames
Spreading Flames [reaction] Trigger A creature enters the 
printing house; Effect The flames swell at the influx of 
air and deal 1d6 fire damage (DC 17 basic Reflex save). 
The fire then rolls initiative.
Routine (1 action) On its turn, the fire spreads into a 
number of additional squares equal to half the number 
of squares the fire currently occupies, with a minimum 
of 1 square. You determine the squares the fire 
spreads into—typically those with the most flammable 
materials. Any creature that ends its turn next to the 
flames takes 1d6 fire damage, and any creature within 
the flames takes 4d6 fire damage. Both of these have 
a DC 17 basic Reflex save. A creature can take damage 
from flames only once per round.
Instead of fighting the fire, PCs might try to dash 
upstairs to grab the lazybones pendant. If they do, 
they find the single, large storeroom empty and clearly 
looted. The only thing in the room is a blue 
ribbon pinned to the wall. If the PCs don’t 
make it upstairs, Ievis discovers the 
blue ribbon afterward and informs 
them that the necklace is gone.
Treasure: Ievis offers the PCs 
two unassuming face paints (page 
211) as thanks. If the PCs saved 
the shop, he also gifts them a rare 
manuscript of the banned play 
Abrogail I, which is worth 300 gp.
ABROGAIL I SCRIPT	
ITEM 4
RARE
Price 300 gp
Hands 1; Bulk L
This satirical play by Amalia Wraxton was published 
in 4710 ar. Its controversial content, depicting the 
eponymous queen as the lover of Asmodeus and a co-
conspirator in the death of Aroden, caused an uproar that 
led to violent suppression and a defiant uprising. The play 
has since been banned and can be found only among the 
secret collections of art connoisseurs. If you own a copy 
of this play, you can publicly perform parts of Abrogail I as 
a downtime activity with a successful DC 19 Performance 
check. This activity lasts four hours including setup, 
rehearsal, and attracting a crowd, and you can’t perform 
this play again in this settlement for a week.
Critical Success As success, but you gain 2 Uprising 
Points.
Success The people are roused by your performance. You 
gain 1 Uprising Point.
Failure The authorities crack down on rebellious activity, 
stopping you from performing in this settlement again 
for 1 month.
Critical Failure As failure, but the people are intimidated 
and you lose 1 Uprising Point.
Development: The PCs can now recruit Ievis to 
write copper dalliances with anti-Cheliax content to 
rally readers against the government, earning them 
2 Uprising Points. The first is called Breaking Hell 
for Her.
CHILDREN’S CHARITY
The blue ribbon was a brainchild of Tobmer Qinro, a 
petty thief who rehabilitated himself after a revelation 
that caring for Isger’s orphans was his higher 
purpose. He hoped the ribbon would become a status 
symbol and raise gold to build orphanages across the 
Love Sting Sign

===== Page 73 =====
72
country, but it largely failed. Tobmer made just enough 
to buy a small building, where he raised a handful of 
children on his own. Angry about Elidir’s stinginess, 
Tobmer took on the moniker Father Kindness 
(disillusioned male aiuvarin thief 5) and 
trained his charges to be con artists and 
thieves. He dubbed his nascent thieves’ 
guild the Children’s Charity and three 
decades later, his now-grown charges leave 
blue ribbons at the scenes of their crime as 
a (largely overlooked) message that their 
stolen prizes are what Elidir’s less fortunate 
are due.
After learning about the blue 
ribbon, a PC can attempt a DC 19 
Elidir Lore or Underworld Lore 
check or a DC 21 Society check to Recall 
Knowledge to know the ribbon’s history 
and the former orphanage’s location. If that fails, they 
can attempt a DC 19 Diplomacy check to Gather 
Information, with the following results.
Success The PC learns the origins of the blue ribbon and 
the location of the former orphanage.
Failure As success, but the PC’s inquiries make their way 
to the Children’s Charity. The thieves become wary (see 
Wariness, below).
Critical Failure As failure, but the thieves are already on 
high alert when the PCs arrive.
H. House of Found Family
The PCs can easily find the old House of Found 
Family orphanage in a rundown area of the city, 
which uses the map on page 66. Its ceilings are 10 
feet high and the walls are wooden slats with doors 
of reinforced wood. The exterior door is locked, but 
can be opened with three successful DC 20 Thievery 
checks to Pick the Lock. The interior doors are 
typically unlocked unless otherwise noted; if they’re 
locked, they can also be opened with three successful 
DC 20 Thievery checks. Only Father Kindness has 
a key—he expects his charges to be able to let 
themselves in and out without one. The windows 
are all lined with iron bars close enough together 
to keep out anything Small or larger. Wooden slat 
shutters are usually opened during the day to let in 
light, but closed at night for warmth and security. An 
everlight crystal hangs in a hooded lantern in each 
room, providing all the rooms bright illumination 
at night or when the shutters are closed, unless 
someone closes the lantern.
The PCs can spend a day staking out the 
orphanage to get a better sense of comings and 
goings. With a successful DC 19 Perception check, 
their observations reveal that there are typically 
four thieves in the building at all times (plus Father 
Kindness, but they don’t have a chance to observe 
him); on a critical success, they also realize 
that when multiple thieves come or go from 
the front door, they do so one at a time, 
with each fully descending or ascending 
the stairs before the next follows (this 
is to avoid the trap in area H1). The PC 
must also attempt a DC 19 Stealth check 
to Avoid Notice to avoid raising suspicions 
among the thieves’ guild. On a failure, the 
thieves become wary; on a critical failure, 
or if the thieves are already wary, they 
instead are on high alert.
Wariness: If the thieves are wary, 
they gain a +1 circumstance bonus to 
all initiative rolls and the PCs take a –1 
penalty to their Perception and Stealth checks if 
they try to stake out the orphanage. If the thieves 
are on high alert, in addition to the effects of 
being wary, they close the wooden shutters on the 
windows, and use Stealth for their initiatives. If the 
thieves become aware of the PCs’ presence in the 
orphanage through combat or an alarm, they go on 
high alert, which they also do if the PCs leave the 
area to recover. Once they go on high alert, they 
remain in that status throughout this adventure.
While the Children’s Charity members want to 
defend their home, they place a higher priority on 
their lives. When they’re reduced to 25% of their Hit 
Points they try to escape, either out the front entrance 
or the secret door on the second floor.
H1. FRONT ENTRANCE	
TRIVIAL 4
Stairs lead to a landing in front of a weathered door with 
a broken brass knocker hanging from a single nail. The 
plate is a cherub’s face, though it’s badly dented where 
the clapper hits its smile.
The exterior door is locked at all times.
Hazard: Father Kindness installed a trap here when 
the orphanage became a thieves’ guild headquarters. 
The thieves avoid it by only entering one at a time.
STAIR SPIKES	
HAZARD 4
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 22 (trained)
Description A set of hidden spikes stabs into the feet of 
anyone on the landing or front stairs.
Disable Thievery DC 22 (trained) to unhook the pressure 
plate or Crafting DC 24 (trained) to block the spikes
Father Kindness

===== Page 74 =====
73
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Look Sharp [reaction] Trigger The door is opened while someone 
is standing on the stairs; Effect Spikes fire upward, 
dealing 2d8+5 piercing damage to all creatures standing 
on the landing or stairs (DC 25 basic Reflex save). On 
a failure, the creature takes a –5 status penalty to its 
Speed for 1 hour; on a critical failure it’s also clumsy 1.
Reward: If the PCs bypass the trap without setting 
it off, award them 40 XP.
H2. DINING ROOM	
MODERATE 4
A wooden table runs the length of this room, its surface 
scratched and marred. Mismatched chairs line the table.
Creatures: Unless the guild is wary or on high alert, 
two members can be found here helping themselves 
to a snack. If the PCs catch them unawares, they 
shout in alarm (putting the guild on high alert), draw 
their weapons, and attack. If they can, they flee into 
the rec room (area H4), where they attempt to use 
the hazards to their advantage. If the guild is already 
wary or on high alert, these thieves are instead in the 
rec room.
CHILDREN’S CHARITY PILFERERS (2)	
CREATURE 4
Burglar (Pathfinder NPC Core 20)
Initiative Perception +10 (Stealth +12)
H3. KITCHEN
The smell of a meat stew fills this room, coming from a 
large pot hung over a fireplace in the far corner. A small 
butcher’s block table fills the center of the kitchen, and 
pots, pans, knives, and other cooking implements hang 
from the walls.
Treasure: A large amount of stolen silverware worth 
40 gp can be found here, along with a low-grade silver 
filcher’s fork.
H4. REC ROOM	
TRIVIAL 4
Several training dummies with painted faces resembling 
goblins and Isgeri army soldiers stand in this large room, 
holding wooden swords and shields. Faded paintings on the 
wall show children battling giant spiders and river bandits.
Father Kindness first entertained and then later 
trained his charges in this area.
Creatures: This room is empty if the guild is not 
wary or on high alert; otherwise the Children’s 
Charity pilferers in the dining room (area H2) 
wait here. One lurks at the foot of the stairs, just 
out of sight, waiting for anyone to enter. The other 
waits in the southeast corner, hoping to lure an 
intruder into the hazards. Their presence makes this 
a moderate encounter.
Hazards: The training dummies work as traps for 
the unwary. The Practice Guard’s Grasp is in the area 
marked T1 and the Disarming Dummy is in the area 
marked T2. The Children’s Charity members are 
familiar with the traps and don’t trigger them even 
when adjacent.
PRACTICE GUARD’S GRASP	
HAZARD 4
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 23 (trained)
Description A spring-loaded net fires from the dummy, 
then is pulled tightly back in with magnets.
Disable DC 18 Thievery (trained) to jam the net or DC 25 
Athletics to knock the dummy over
AC 18; Fort +14, Ref +8
Hardness 12; HP 48 (BT 24); Immunities critical hits, 
object immunities, precision damage
Got You! [reaction] Trigger A creature moves adjacent to the trap; 
Effect The creature must attempt a DC 23 Reflex save 
or be grabbed (restrained on a critical failure). The DC 
to Escape is 23, or the net can be cut by doing 6 acid, 
fire, or slashing damage to it.
DISARMING DUMMY	
HAZARD 4
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 23 (trained)
Description A leather strap on the dummy’s mechanical 
arm swings around, knocking items out the hands of 
anyone adjacent.
Disable DC 18 Thievery (trained) to jam the rotor or DC 25 
Athletics to knock the dummy over
AC 18; Fort +14, Ref +8
Hardness 12; HP 48 (BT 24); Immunities critical hits, 
object immunities, precision damage
Hold On! [reaction] Trigger A creature moves adjacent to the 
trap; Effect The trap makes a single Athletics check 
with a +17 modifier to Disarm the creature.
Reward: Disabling the dummies earns the PCs 
60 XP.
H5. ORPHANS’ DORMITORY	
LOW 4
Faded paintings on the walls of this room depict a 
mountain scene, a dark forest, a city, and a verdant field. 
Several neatly made bunk beds occupy the center of the 
chamber and fine rugs cover the floor between them. Two 
small chests sit at the head and foot of each bed.

===== Page 75 =====
74
The thieves have used this dorm since childhood. The 
rooms are otherwise largely bare of adornment other 
than the bunk beds, stolen rugs and murals depicting 
scenery around Isger. A secret door, which can be 
discovered with a successful DC 19 Perception check, 
opens to the outside where the thieves can Climb down 
the side of the building if they need to escape.
Creatures: Two thieves are in this room. If they are 
unaware of the PCs, they’re awake but relaxing in bed. 
If the guild is on high alert, they wait to ambush anyone 
who comes up the stairs. One hides in the northeastern 
corner of the room, while the other hides between the 
western bunk beds. In addition, Father Kindness waits 
just outside his room (area H8); his presence makes 
this a severe encounter. After using ranged weapons 
from hiding, the thieves attempt to flank enemies to 
use their sneak attack.
CHILDREN’S CHARITY HOUSEBREAKER	 CREATURE 4
Burglar (Pathfinder NPC Core 20)
Initiative Perception +10 (Stealth +12)
CHILDREN’S CHARITY HUSTLER	
CREATURE 2
Acrobat (Pathfinder NPC Core 124)
Initiative Perception +6 (Stealth +8)
Treasure: Small chests at the foot of the beds 
contain the thieves’ clothing and other personal items, 
including stashes of stolen jewelry from the last two 
decades, which can be sold for 20 gp.
H6. STOREROOM
The shelves of this room contain bedding, cleaning 
supplies, and other such sundries. Hidden under the 
obvious items is guild equipment, which can be found 
with a successful DC 19 Perception check to Search.
Treasure: The items here include an elite disguise 
kit, 2 lesser elixirs of life, a shacklebreaker (page 212), 
and an infiltrator thieves’ toolkit.
H7. BATHROOM
The shared bathroom has two tubs fed with rainwater from 
spigots in the wall. A shelf on the back wall holds soap and 
several bottles of perfumed oils.
Hidden in the base of the tubs are several secret 
compartments, where the guild keeps its stolen money. 
A PC who Searches the room can discover it with a 
successful DC 19 Perception check.
Treasure: The hidden chambers contain stolen 
noble crests worth 30 gp.
H8. FATHER KINDNESS’S BEDROOM	MODERATE 4
Children’s drawings hang on the rough wooden walls in this 
room, contrasting with several marble busts and golden 
statuettes on the bureau. A lush bearskin rug covers the 
floor in front of a large canopy bed.
Father Kindness’s private quarters are furnished 
with stolen items from his guild’s activities and 
mementos from the orphans’ childhood. The door to 
this room remains locked at all times, and the guild 
members all know better than to attempt to enter 
without permission.
Creatures: Father Kindness is alone in this room 
unless the guild is on high alert, in which case he can 
be found outside the orphans’ dormitory. If he hears 
combat from the dormitory, he activates the trap on 
his door (if it wasn’t already activated), draws his 
weapon, and moves to the door to limit his opponents 
to fighting him one-on-one. If reduced to 25% of his 
Hit Points, he attempts to flee, but if unable, he throws 
down his weapon and cries for mercy.
Hazard: If the thieves are wary, Father Kindness 
activates the trap on the main door to blind any 
intruders.
FATHER KINDNESS	
CREATURE 5
Fence (Pathfinder NPC Core 21)
Initiative Perception +11
BLINDING SPRAY	
HAZARD 4
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 22 Stealth (trained)
Description A bladder of powdered peppers is secreted in a 
compartment above the door.
Disable Thievery DC 20 (trained) to disable the blade that 
bursts the bladder
No Orphans Allowed [reaction] Trigger The door is opened; Effect 
The powder sprays in a burst that fills the square in 
front of the door and all adjacent squares in the orphans’ 
dormitory. Any creature in the area must attempt a DC 
21 Reflex save.
Success The creature is dazzled for 1 round.
Failure The creature is blinded for 1 round.
Critical Failure The creature is blinded for 1 minute.
Treasure: Father Kindness was intrigued by the 
lazybones pendant (page 211), which he’s been 
examining in his room. In addition, the stolen artwork 
can be sold for 60 gp. 
Development: If any of the thieves survive, the PCs 
can try to recruit them for the Hellbreakers League. 
Doing so requires a successful DC 17 Diplomacy check;

===== Page 76 =====
75
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
increase the DC by 1 for each thief the PCs killed. 
They earn 2 Uprising Points if successful—double on 
a critical success, as the Children’s Charity members 
help recruit other disaffected members of the lower 
classes.
Elidir Events
While the PCs plot rebellion, they 
face a deeply divided city inhabited 
by wealthy, self-interested elites 
who wield power under Cheliax’s 
yoke, and the downtrodden masses 
that make up the bulk of the population. 
The following events occur in no particular 
order during this part of the adventure. Use 
them to emphasize the inequity of the current 
regime and power structure in Elidir.
EVENT: A POOR DEATH
Life in Isger is difficult for those without money, and 
that’s no less true in Elidir despite the riches that pass 
through the capital. Among those down on their luck 
is Padisco (stubborn male human war veteran 3), 
an old soldier whose legs were badly injured in the 
Goblinblood War and currently survives by begging 
for coins. He’s crossing the street in front of the PCs 
when his crutches slide on a patch of ice under the 
snow, leaving him sprawled on the ground just as a 
speeding carriage approaches. If the PCs want to save 
him, they have only moments to react.
Allow PCs to determine what approach to take 
for a rescue, such as pulling Padisco to safety in the 
nick of time with a successful DC 19 Athletics check, 
redirecting the carriage with a DC 17 Driving Lore 
check, or a DC 19 Intimidation check or Nature check 
to Command an Animal. A PC could also try to stop 
the carriage with a DC 19 Crafting or Thievery check 
to jam something into the spokes of the wheel.
If no PC succeeds, the carriage tramples poor Padisco, 
leaving him at dying 2 but giving the PCs opportunities 
to save him by using Battle Medicine, alchemy, or 
magic. If any PC critically fails in their attempt, they are 
also trampled by the carriage and take 2d8 bludgeoning 
damage (DC 19 basic Reflex save).
Reward: If the PCs save Padisco’s life, award them 
30 XP and 1 Uprising Point. Padisco promises to help 
them any way he can.
EVENT: WHO’S LAUGHING NOW?	
LOW 4
A small pack of young men points and laughs as a laborer 
struggles to get an enormous daeodon to move through 
the crowded streets. As the creature stops to relieve itself, 
the group’s apparent leader stoops down and picks up 
a rock, throwing it at the beast. “Look, two piles of dung in 
the street!” he yells, as his friends laugh raucously.
The pack of awful teenagers is led by Moccoviz Azri 
(spoiled male human brat 4), the son of a rich merchant 
the PCs meet at the gala. Spotting the laborer’s 
struggles with a daeodon he’s transporting 
through the city, Moccoviz exploits 
the situation for his own amusement. 
Unfortunately for him, the stone hits the 
beast, who reacts immediately, pulling 
its lead free and charging the teens. Let 
the PCs attempt a DC 19 Perception 
check; on a success, the PC realizes the 
handler intentionally dropped the lead 
and gains a +2 circumstance bonus to 
their initiative.
Creatures: The daeodon charges the teens, 
leaving them scattered and bruised, before turning its 
attention to the PCs, who are in the wrong place at the 
wrong time. The handler laughs as the daeodon charges 
the teens, but cries out in alarm as it attacks the PCs, 
calling for them to not kill it. A PC who saw the handler 
release the beast can spend a single action, which has 
the concentrate trait, to make a DC 21 Intimidation 
check to tell him to control it. On a success, he does so 
at the end of the round, or at the end of the PC’s turn on 
a critical success, ending the combat.
ELITE DAEODON	
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder Monster Core 6, 43
Initiative Perception +14
Development: If the PCs get the handler to control 
the daeodon, he mutters an apology and departs 
with the creature before Moccoviz can take out his 
anger on him. If they kill the beast, the handler looks 
distraught, blaming them for the punishment he’ll 
face. Dirty from his fall in the street, Moccoviz says 
it’s no less than the man deserves. The humiliated teen 
grudgingly thanks the PCs and tosses 1d6 sp on the 
ground for them as he departs.
EVENT: INJUSTICE IS SERVED	
LOW 4
A sudden harsh shout—“You there! Stop! It’s the Gyve 
for you!”—booms over the noise of the streets of Elidir 
as a guard patrol moves with practiced skill through the 
parting crowds.
Justice has little place in Elidir, where the rich get 
away with all manner of behavior, and the poor face 
 Lazybones Pendant

===== Page 77 =====
76
harsh repercussions for crimes they commit to 
survive. When a starving goblin urchin tries to 
steal from the PCs, they get the chance to 
experience this state of matters firsthand 
as a guard spots her and promises harsh 
consequences in the city’s notorious 
prison.
Ozney Cacklemouth (desperate young 
female goblin urchin –1) attempts to steal 
coins from a random PC. She attempts a 
single Thievery check with a +7 modifier 
against all the PCs’ Perception DCs. In the 
unlikely event she succeeds, the PCs 
might think the guards are coming 
for them, but it’s quickly clear that 
the guards have spotted Ozney and 
plan to drag her away to the Gyve. If the PCs 
didn’t learn about the Gyve earlier, they can attempt 
a DC 17 Elidir Lore or DC 19 Society Lore check to 
Recall Knowledge to know it’s the city’s main prison, 
where suspects are tortured to get confessions and 
even minor crimes can result in forced labor (they 
can also ask the guards, who inform them it’s the 
city’s prison).
Ozney begs for forgiveness, saying she simply 
wanted a few coins to buy food, but the guards are 
unmoved. The PCs can attempt to talk the guards 
into releasing Ozney, though they’re hesitant about 
“letting a criminal go free.” Convincing them 
requires succeeding at a DC 17 Legal Lore or DC 
19 Diplomacy check to Request that the guards let 
her go, or DC 19 Intimidation check to Coerce them 
into doing so. If the PCs fail (or don’t intervene), 
the guards begin dragging the sobbing goblin away. 
The PCs can fight the guards to stop them, but 
warn them that doing so will gain them Suppression 
Points.
Creatures: The three guards fight back if the PCs 
initiate combat. Ozney hides nearby if combat breaks 
out, but if you need statistics for her, you can use the 
urchin (NPC Core 40).
WATCH OFFICER	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder NPC Core 113
Initiative Perception +8
GUARDS (2)	
CREATURE 1
Pathfinder NPC Core 110
Initiative Perception +7
Reward: If the PCs talk the guards into releasing 
Ozney, award them XP as if they’d defeated the guards 
in combat.
Development: If the PCs fight the guards, they gain 
1 Suppression Point, or 2 if they kill any guards. If 
they prevent Ozney’s arrest, she thanks them while 
clutching her stomach in hunger—she’s sincerely 
grateful for being saved, but also tries to milk 
the situation to get food or money. She also 
offers to help if they need anything; award the 
PCs 1 Uprising Point.
The Gala
The gala is scheduled to take place one week 
after the PCs arrive in the city. Once they 
arrive at Reevesrest, read or paraphrase 
the following.
Floating balls of red and white light 
illuminate the great room of the mansion. 
Music performed by a string quartet on a 
stage in the western wing of the room fills the air over 
the sound of conversation. Many of the assembled guests 
wear costumes to evoke Hell—elaborate pieces with horns 
and other devilish features embellish fine silk and velvet 
dresses and suits—or armored Hellknights.
A curved grand staircase with painted balusters leads 
up to a landing and a walkway that stretches across the 
room. A few figures look down from above, but a pair of 
armed guards, dressed as devils complete with a false tail 
attached to their armor, stand guard at the foot of the 
stairs, preventing most people from ascending.
The gala, filled with the elite of Elidir as well as the 
guards and servants who care for them, takes place 
over six social rounds, each taking about an hour. 
During this time, the PCs should reach a deal with 
Quoster Thistlewait using the influence subsystem 
(GM Core 187). They can also meet other important 
people in attendance. Because the PCs must maintain 
their disguises, they can’t influence the NPCs to help 
the Hellbreakers League, but can win personal favor.
Influence Rounds: Let the PCs know they have at 
least six social rounds, as the party will likely last into 
the small hours of the night, leading up to the actual 
LARGER PARTIES
You might want to reduce the number of social 
rounds for groups with more than four PCs, who 
will find it much easier to accomplish their goals. 
For groups of five PCs, you may want to have five 
influence rounds, or just four for groups of six PCs. 
Events can be spread out over the evening, with 
one or two per influence round.
Moccoviz Azri

===== Page 78 =====
77
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
anniversary of the Hellknights’ march. In addition, a 
number of events, starting on page 80, occur during 
the course of the evening, some of which give the PCs 
additional social rounds.
I. REEVESREST MANOR
Reevesrest is fully described in Chapter 5 (page 85), 
when the PCs have free rein to explore. For now, 
the party is largely confined to the great room (area 
I2) and grounds outside. PCs who wish to explore 
can enter areas including the library, dining room, 
gallery, and garden, but are restricted from other areas 
by guards and servants, who steer them back to the 
public rooms. The upstairs is fully off limits, and two 
guards stand at the bottom of the stairs in the great 
room, preventing access.
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
Some of the gala’s guests play a larger role in Chapters 
5 and 6. Below are the most prominent, of whom 
Quoster, Caeto, and Ezio are the most important to 
the adventure; feel free to add other guests as needed.
QUOSTER THISTLEWAIT	
CREATURE 4
UNIQUE
SMALL
HALFLING
HUMANOID
Male halfling Druman trader
Perception +8
Will +10
Discovery DC 17 Mercantile Lore, DC 21 
Perception or Performance, DC 19 Society
Influence Skills DC 19 Mercantile Lore, DC 21 
Diplomacy and Society, DC 24 Crafting
Influence 0 Quoster is undeterred 
from his demands for a lucrative 
trade deal. He agrees to help the 
Hellbreakers League, but the 
concessions prove onerous and—if 
the PCs win freedom for Isger—
unpopular. Reduce the Hellbreakers 
League’s Reputation Points by 2.
Influence 2 The PCs persuade Quoster to 
accept reasonable terms beneficial to 
both sides. The Hellbreakers League gains 
1 Reputation Point.
Influence 4 Quoster agrees to a deal that lets 
him profit in return for commensurate aid 
to the rebels. The Hellbreakers League gains 
2 Reputation Points and Quoster promises a 
devilwing badge (page 211) to the PCs after the 
gala.
Influence 6 Quoster’s bargain benefits him 
alongside Isger—the better the country 
does, the more Quoster profits. The Hellbreakers League 
gains 3 Reputation Points and Quoster immediately 
gives the PCs the devilwing badge.
Resistances Quoster plays the fool to get ahead, but 
disdains those who don’t see the truth. PCs who 
treat him as a fool or act foolish themselves take a –2 
circumstance penalty on checks to Influence him.
Weaknesses Quoster has a strong distaste for Cheliax due 
to its history of slavery and iron grip on the Conerica 
River trade routes. PCs who frame negotiations in terms 
of how it would hurt Cheliax gain a +2 circumstance 
bonus on Influence checks.
Background Growing up in Druma, Quoster realized how 
much better his life was than most halflings. While 
he sees his wealth as his birthright, he also knows it 
protects him. He’s devoted resources to helping causes 
he deems worthy, such as the Bellflower Network, but 
prioritizes those that benefit him personally.
Appearance Quoster is dressed in over-the-top finery, 
wearing a ruffled black blouse under a red velvet coat 
with long tails and golden fastenings. His fine leather 
boots curl up at the toes. He carries a silver cane with 
a large ruby. 
Personality Quoster is a shrewd merchant, which he hides 
behind a carefully cultivated image as a fop. He 
is remorseless in business, seeking to gain every 
advantage, and justifies his cutthroat attitude by 
using his resources to help those less fortunate.
CAETO VULAUNEX	
CREATURE 11
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Self-righteous male human Hellknight
Perception +18
Will +20 (+22 against mental)
Discovery DC 24 Intimidation, DC 19 
Perception, DC 17 Religion, DC 21 Society
Influence Skills DC 19 Intimidation (to 
show a steely will), DC 21 Religion (to 
discuss how Abadar and Asmodeus 
both teach about the importance of 
law and order), or DC 24 Deception 
or Diplomacy (to talk about Isger)
Influence 2 Caeto senses a 
common 
interest 
in 
Isger’s 
welfare and disdain for Hedvend 
VI’s stewardship. He offers the PCs a 
diplomat’s badge and urges them to use 
their voices to improve conditions in 
the country.
Resistances Caeto can’t stand lies. 
A PC who fails a Deception 
check to Influence him 
cannot 
attempt 
to 
Quoster

===== Page 79 =====
78
Influence him again (though the PC can still attempt to 
Discover information about him).
Weaknesses Caeto grew up near Saringallow, a childhood 
he remembers fondly. A PC who mentions the village 
gains a +2 circumstance bonus on checks to Influence 
him as long as they don’t mention Hellbreaker activity 
in the area.
Background Caeto rose through the ranks while fighting 
in the Goblinblood Wars before leaving Isger with the 
Hellknights. He recently returned, and Hedvend invited 
him to Elidir to head a special task force to hunt down 
Hellbreakers. See page 238 for more on Caeto.
Appearance Caeto wears the full symbols of his status as a 
Hellknight, including armor and weapons. 
Personality Caeto can be charming and affable, if a little 
condescending. His long absence from Isger makes him 
slightly awkward due to his lack of in-depth familiarity 
with current events.
Special Caeto plays a larger role in future chapters. He 
should appear friendly and even open-minded to set up 
his allyship and ultimate betrayal of the PCs in Chapter 5.
EZIO GAETA	
CREATURE 7
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
UNHOLY
VAMPIRE
Male vampire agent of Urgathoa
Perception +16
Will +18
Discovery DC 21 Deception, DC 19 Perception, DC 19 
Society
Influence Skills DC 19 Diplomacy or Society (to discuss 
current events), DC 22 Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or 
Religion (to reveal a magical trick), DC 24 Thievery (to 
perform some sleight of hand)
Influence 2 Ezio happily shares gossip about other guests. 
All PCs gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Discovery 
checks for the rest of the gala.
Influence 4 Ezio deftly smooths over misunderstandings 
for the PCs to show the value of his friendship. Once 
during the gala, if a PC critically fails an Influence check, 
they get a failure instead.
Influence 6 Ezio offers to help make connections. Once 
during the gala, a PC can roll twice on an Influence check 
and take the better result.
Resistances Ezio dislikes bores; a PC who critically fails a 
check to Influence him takes a –2 penalty on all future 
checks made to Influence him.
Weaknesses Ezio enjoys gossip. A PC who discusses 
someone else at the gala gains a +2 circumstance bonus 
on checks made to Influence him.
Background Ezio is an agent of Illcayna Alonnor playing 
a public role as a loyal, trusted advisor and fixer for the 
city’s elite, including Hedvend VI, who gets things done 
for his friends. See page 240 for more on Ezio.
Appearance Ezio is a large man with ruddy skin. He’s 
dressed as an ayngavhaul, a heresy devil, with a cape 
that forms the illusion of an iron throne whenever 
he sits. (If a PC recognizes it and asks about the odd 
choice, he jokes that it’s a reference to critics of his 
advice.)
Personality Ezio is eccentric, just a little too off-putting and 
ingratiating for people to really like him, but he’s useful 
enough that they overlook those traits. He’s always open 
for new opportunities and sees potential in the PCs if 
they approach him.
Special Ezio plays a much larger role in Chapter 5. He 
should appear as someone the PCs can make use of here, 
before his true allegiances and actions are revealed.
COLONEL RITHERT
CREATURE 3
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Sycophantic agender human officer
Perception +9
Will +9
Discovery DC 17 Diplomacy, DC 24 Performance, DC 21 
Society
Influence Skills DC 17 Deception (to shamelessly flatter 
Rithert), DC 19 Athletics or DC 21 Survival (to show 
personal prowess)
Influence 2 Influencing Colonel Rithert reveals xir 
eagerness to get ahead would make xim an easy target 
for future Hellbreaker activities. If xe survives the gala, 
the PCs can use this information later.
Resistances Rithert is jealous of those who have seen 
combat. Any PC who discusses a battle they have been 
in takes a –2 penalty on checks made to Influence xim.
Weaknesses Rithert easily succumbs to flattery. PCs who 
discuss how xe clearly should be serving in the field gain 
a +2 circumstance bonus on checks to Influence xim.
Background Too young to have fought in the Goblinblood 
Wars, xe ended up in a logistics role in the army, much to 
xir frustration. Xe desperately wants a war xe can prove 
xemself in.
Appearance Rithert wears xir military uniform, with a 
headdress that resembles a vordine devil’s horns.
Personality Xe believes xe needs to work through Cheliax 
to advance xir career, and plays the role of devil’s 
advocate to get ahead.
SASTOLI BRUNC
CREATURE 3
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Blunt genderfluid human dockmaster
Perception +9
Will +11
Discovery DC 15 Labor Lore, DC 17 Perception
Influence Skills DC 20 Intimidation (to appeal to his tough 
nature), DC 22 Athletics (to show physical prowess),

===== Page 80 =====
79
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
DC 24 Crafting or Medicine (to show knowledge of skills 
Sastoli considers actually useful)
Influence 2 Sastoli becomes friendly toward the PCs (which 
benefits them in Chapter 6).
Resistances Sastoli disdains empty talk. A PC who fails a 
check to Influence them takes a –2 penalty to Influence 
them for the remainder of the gala.
Weaknesses Sastoli appreciates those who do physical 
work. A PC whose highest attribute is Strength gains a 
+1 to any checks to Influence Sastoli.
Background Sastoli came up through the ranks on the 
docks, becoming one of the dockmasters who oversees 
the workers that make the city’s trade economy function. 
Their competence secures their position, and earns them 
invitations to galas like this one.
Appearance Sastoli stands out among the finely dressed 
elites in the worst way possible—they’re wearing plain 
dockworker’s clothes, except for a plush sarglagon 
draped around their shoulders as a conceit to the theme. 
Personality Sastoli is blunt and out of their 
element, breaking all manner of etiquette such 
as grabbing fistfuls of appetizers from servants, 
and delights in the quiet outrage of the elites 
who can’t kick them out.
Reward: For each influence threshold the 
PCs meet, award them 40 XP.
MINOR ATTENDEES
In addition to the NPCs who the PCs can 
Influence to befriend, there are several 
other NPCs they can interact with who 
play some role in later events at the 
gala or in its aftermath.
Ambassador Vrig (cautious male 
hobgoblin diplomat 4), a former 
officer in the Ironfang Legion, was 
sent to Isger to find allies for Oprak. 
He has largely given up that hope for lost, 
realizing that Hedvend has little ability to 
make any alliances without permission from 
Cheliax. He wears an Ironfang Legion uniform 
and is a dour presence that sees the party as a 
necessary part of his job, not an enjoyable one.
Fesimwyth “Fessy” Finwinkle (anxious female 
gnome cleric of Abadar 3) found her faith following 
the Goblinblood Wars as she tried to help rebuild 
her native town of Umok. She came to Elidir 
seeking help, only to become frustrated by the 
elite’s lack of concern about the areas outside the 
Conerica Straits. Despite this, she fears the 
Hellbreakers League’s disruptions will only 
make matters worse. Fessy was sent to the 
gala as a representative of her temple, since the local 
archbanker had no interest in attending. She’s wearing 
her usual religious garb of white and gold rather than a 
costume. She isn’t comfortable at the party and stands 
off by herself, but is happy for anyone to approach her. 
She’s eager to talk, and latches on to anyone who is 
kind to her.
Lezinia (status-seeking female human wannabe diva 
1)—one name only, and often said as though followed 
by an exclamation point—is dressed as finely as anyone 
at the party, in an outfit that likely cost enough to pay 
for a small family’s food and housing for a month. Her 
dress clearly evokes a gylou (Monster Core 91), with 
the ribbon tentacles that make up her skirt showing 
off her legs to good effect. Lezinia came to Isger at 
Hedvend’s invitation after catching his eye on one of 
his trips to Cheliax. It was an opportunity she couldn’t 
turn down—she’s not talented enough to gain the same 
level of opportunity in Cheliax, but in a backwater like 
Isger? She’s a big fish in a little pond. In conversation, 
Lezinia typically steers discussion to herself, her 
talents, and her stardom. Despite her very clear self-
interest, she’s not inherently cruel or callous like 
many of the Isgeri elite.
Merpelia Carafo (inconsiderate female human 
noble 1) is a typical Elidiran elite, content 
with the way life is in Isger, and incapable of 
understanding why anyone would rebel. 
Prattling on about whatever catches 
her attention, she just can’t understand 
why so many Isgeri are upset about 
their conditions. Surely if it were 
as bad as they claim, they would 
move to Elidir or somewhere else. If 
they can’t be bothered, then they’re 
either too lazy, or just exaggerating 
for attention. Merpelia wears a fine 
golden fur made from a rare cat 
found in the Menador Mountains 
over her blue silk sari imported 
from Vudra, and jewelry made 
of gold, duskwood, and rare 
gemstones. Her outfit is not 
on theme.
Rencelos Azri (greedy male human 
war profiteer 6) is one of the richest men 
in Elidir, thanks to being one of the Isgeri 
army’s primary suppliers of arms following his 
service in the Goblinblood Wars. He’s thrilled 
by the unrest since it means more demand 
for his services. Rencelos is dressed like 
a nessari (Monster Core 89), complete 
with spiked armor, wings taken from a 
Gala Guard

===== Page 81 =====
80
drake he hunted for the occasion, and a bare chest 
that shows off his aging, but still firm, physique. His 
conversations mostly consist of laughing at those who 
are poorer than him and lamenting that his son was 
nearly killed a few days ago by some fool who let 
loose a giant boar.
Gala Events
A number of events take place during the gala between 
social rounds. They occur in the following order, 
culminating in the False Flag event, which follows the 
final social round.
EVENT: A GAME OF MANTICORE
A small group of partygoers enjoys a game of 
manticore, which involves throwing darts at targets 
set up in a playing field, and the associated gambling 
on the manor grounds.
Snow has been cleared from a strip of the lawn on the 
manor grounds. Three painted straw targets are arranged 
on the field: a halfling twenty feet away, a goblin 
forty feet away, and a human peasant sixty 
feet away.
Any PCs are welcome to join in the game or place 
wagers. Each PC can wager up to 20 gp on someone 
to win the match or before an individual throw—up 
to 1 gp that someone will hit the halfling, 3 gp that 
someone will hit the goblin, and 5 gp that someone 
will hit the human target.
Running Manticore: Each participant gets six darts, 
which they throw at targets until each has used all their 
darts. Each target is AC 18, though throwers take penalties 
due to range for farther targets (–2 and –4, respectively). 
They get 1 point for hitting the closest target, 2 for the 
next target, or 3 for the farthest; on a critical hit, they 
hit the target’s head, and get double points. A player can 
also throw two darts at the same target at the same time. 
In this case, both Strikes take the multiple attack penalty. 
Each hit from a double-throw earns double points: 2, 4, 
or 6 for a hit, or 4, 8, or 12 for a critical hit. Using magic 
is technically not allowed, but most spectators find it 
amusing that someone would resort to such tactics for a 
game and will let subtle uses slide.
The contestants: Three other partygoers participate 
in the game. You can roll for each of their 
turns with the listed attack modifier, or 
simply use their usual score if you wish to 
speed the event along.
• Ambassador Vrig (attack modifier +8; usual 
score 8) is a talented warrior, but cautious. 
He uses his own darts, which he throws one 
at a time at the nearest target.
• Colonel Rithert (attack modifier +6; usual score 
6) chafes at xir lack of combat opportunities, and 
takes the opportunity to show xir skill. Xe throws 
twice at the goblin target before double-
throwing twice at the same target.
• Rencelos Azri (attack modifier +15, 
usual score 12) is a skilled combatant, but cares 
little about winning. He throws all his darts 
two at a time at the farthest target. He laughs 
uproariously at every hit (his or other players’) 
and makes up stories about the target deserving 
it.
Social Round: A PC who participates in the game 
gains an additional social round they can use to 
Influence Colonel Rithert.
Treasure: If a PC outscores Ambassador Vrig, he 
congratulates them and offers one of his personal low-
grade silver darts as a prize. If multiple PCs outscore 
him, he offers it to the highest scorer.
EVENT: SOCIAL “FOE” PAS
LOW 4
A cry cuts off in a gurgle as a velstrac lifts a human servant 
in an ort costume into the air by his throat. Spilled wine 
Party Imp

===== Page 82 =====
81
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
drips off an imperial-looking woman with an enraged 
expression. “I wore this dress to Aroden’s wake!” she snarls. 
“It’s worth more than your life, you miserable little worm!”
The hapless servant had the misfortune of spilling 
wine on Lady Kaltessa Iyis (mysterious female 
human priestess of Mammon 20), who has 
stopped at the party on her way to Cheliax. The 
PCs can attempt a DC 19 Society check to 
Recall Knowledge to recognize her as a 
seemingly immortal noblewoman also 
known as the Widow Queen who resides 
in the Iron Rose manor among the Menador 
Mountains. A successful DC 21 Religion 
check to Recall Knowledge reveals that she is a 
high priestess of the archdevil Mammon; on 
a critical success, they’ve heard rumors she’s 
centuries old thanks to an infernal pact.
The PCs can attempt to save the 
servant’s life by appealing to Kaltessa 
for mercy with a DC 21 Diplomacy or 
Religion check or a DC 23 Intimidation 
check; on a success, Kaltessa decides 
the servant is not worth the trouble. If no PC 
succeeds, she’s offended by the intrusion and has three 
imp attendants teach the meddling PCs a lesson.
Creatures: Lady Kaltessa Iyis is a challenge beyond 
the PCs’ means at this point, but fortunately doesn’t 
wish to dirty her own hands with their blood. She 
instead has three fiendish attendants attack while she 
and the velstrac observe.
IRON ROSE IMPS (3)	
CREATURE 2
Elite imp (Pathfinder Monster Core 6, 281)
Initiative Perception +9
Development: If the PCs talk Kaltessa into sparing 
the servant, defeat the imps, or a PC is reduced to 0 
Hit Points, Lady Iyis decided she’s had enough and 
stalks out without a word. The confrontation becomes 
the talk of the party for a time, interrupting the normal 
flow of conversation; no social rounds pass during any 
time the PCs need to spend Treating Wounds.
Reward: If the PCs talk Lady Iyis into allowing the 
servant to live, award them XP as if they’d defeated 
the imps in combat.
EVENT: NO THANK YOU BITE
One or more PCs notice a disgusted-looking servant, 
Otton Nettlebrush (disgruntled male halfling servant 
0) in an imp costume furiously scrubbing a wall 
stained with debris from some food, the remains of 
which sit in a pile on the ground. If a PC asks, the 
servant tries to deflect their attention. A PC who 
succeeds at a DC 17 Diplomacy or Intimidation 
check to get more information from Otton learns 
that it was a caramelized garlic tart that 
Ezio threw against the wall in disgust 
after a single bite. If a PC asks 
Ezio, he sheepishly admits it and 
apologizes for the bad behavior. 
He says the cheese had clearly gone 
rancid but the truth is he reacted 
to the garlic in the dish, a clue to 
his true nature. Ezio then takes the 
opportunity to hobnob, granting the PCs 
he speaks with an additional social round 
with an NPC of their choice.
EVENT: FALSE FLAG	
MODERATE 4
The gala was supposed to conclude with 
Hedvend VI’s announcement, but Ezio has a 
surprise planned—an attack by guards posing 
as Hellbreakers League revolutionaries! The 
attack is not only intended to cause chaos by 
killing important Elidirans and whipping up fury 
against the Hellbreakers, it’s a distraction from Ezio’s 
simultaneous murder of Hedvend himself.
Shortly before the attacks, Ezio’s accomplice, 
Lefranek Meyal (zealous female human agent of 
Urgathoa 4), lures three guards to his side to be 
dominated and to recover the false Hellbreakers 
League flag she’s prepared for the charade. Make a 
secret DC 21 Perception check for each PC—on a 
success, the PC notices the guards left their posts, 
presumably to escort Hedvend to the party at last, 
giving them a +1 circumstance bonus to their initiative 
roll when combat begins. On a critical success, the PC 
also notices the guards return without the steward; 
due to the suspicious behavior, the PC is quickened on 
the first round of combat, and can use the extra action 
to Interact to draw a weapon or other item.
Read or paraphrase the following.
The music comes to a sudden stop as a woman’s harsh 
yell silences the party. “Enough! For too long have you 
and Hedvend been Cheliax’s lapdog and neglected our 
beautiful Isger! We shall remove your devilish taint from 
our country! It’s time for everyone here to die, in the name 
of the Hellbreakers League!” She waves an unfamiliar 
flag depicting a flaming sword piercing Asmodeus’s red 
pentagram as her masked compatriots attack.
The stunning announcement ends the gala’s 
festivities and concludes the chapter, continuing in 
Chapter 5.
Otton

===== Page 83 =====
82
Chapter 5 begins immediately after the end of Chapter 
4, beginning combat against the false Hellbreakers. 
You can remind the PCs that they know they were the 
only Hellbreakers at the gala. The Hellknights at the 
gala are missing from this encounter, as dominated 
guards lured them away and attacked them in a 
separate area of the mansion.
Once combat ends, the Hellknights discover that 
Hedvend has been murdered. Everyone in the gala 
is a suspect, though Caeto eventually enlists the PCs 
to help solve the mystery. The PCs also face another 
mystery that only they are aware of—who were the 
false Hellbreakers and why did they attack now? They 
soon face yet another conundrum, as deaths continue 
to pile up, with victims among both Elidir’s elite and 
the servants and guards in Reevesrest. This chapter is 
a closed-box murder mystery, and much of it will be 
free-flowing, with PCs able to pursue various leads 
to solve the mysteries they face. During this process, 
various events break up the story, moving events 
forward, though they’re not specifically timed. This 
investigation 
probably 
happens 
overnight—with 
bodies continuing to drop, there isn’t really time to 
take a period of rest—but there isn’t actually a specific 
time limit. Caeto keeps the manor locked down for as 
long as it takes to solve Hedvend’s murder.
Into the Fray!
FALSE HELLBREAKERS	
MODERATE 5
This combat uses the map on page 86 and takes place 
in the manor’s great room (area I2) and the eastern 
part of the upstairs landing (area I16) that overlooks 
the floor. The ceiling of the western part of the great 
Chapter 5:
Dead Man’s Party

===== Page 84 =====
83
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
room and below the landing is 15 feet high; it’s 25 
feet high in the eastern portion of the room where it 
reaches to the top of the manor. The upstairs landing 
has small railings that provide some measure of safety, 
but otherwise is open below, making it a perfect 
vantage for archers. Banners on the wall help anyone 
trying to Climb; the DC for an Athletics check is 20. 
Creatures: Lefranek descends the stairs to prevent 
anyone from coming up. She Denounces at least once 
every round, trying to ratchet up anger against the 
Hellbreakers League. She arranges the guards to be at 
each end of the landing. They target the gala crowd 
(see hazard, below) until the PCs act, then typically 
use their first 2 actions to target them, and their third 
action to target the crowd until they run out of arrows 
or a PC approaches, at which point they switch to 
their trident and whip. The third false Hellbreaker 
stays at the foot of the stairs, trying to prevent anyone 
from reaching the archers.
Hazard: The floor of the great room teems with 
guests (excluding Ezio, who is killing Hedvend in the 
game room). Unlike most hazards, this one doesn’t 
intentionally take actions to hurt the PCs, but does 
get in the way. The crowd is so packed guests can’t 
easily escape, and the floor is considered difficult 
terrain—but also provides lesser cover to the PCs. 
If the PCs Disable the hazard, they clear the floor. 
However, damage done by the false Hellbreakers 
on the hazard represents people they’ve killed, and 
for every 10 damage, the Hellbreakers League loses 
1 Reputation Point (up to 6 Reputation Points), 
representing the reaction to the carnage that’s blamed 
on the rebellion.
LEFRANEK MEYAL
CREATURE 4
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Female human agent of Urgathoa
Perception +11
Languages Common, Diabolic, Necril
Skills Athletics +10, Deception +12, Diplomacy 
+10, Religion +12 
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +1, Wis +0, Cha +3
Items false Hellbreakers League banner, lance, 
leather armor, sickle
AC 21; Fort +10, Ref +13, Will +9
HP 68
False Flag (aura, emotion, mental, visual) 60 feet. 
Lefranek’s false flag creates panic and confusion. 
Hellbreakers in the area take a –1 circumstance penalty 
to saving throws and DCs vs. effects that give the 
frightened or confused condition. Add 1d8 to the Gala 
Crowd hazard’s check to determine its action during its 
routine.
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] lance +14 (deadly d8, jousting d6, reach), Damage 
1d8+4 piercing
Melee [one-action] sickle +14 (agile, finesse, trip), Damage 1d4+4 
slashing
Denounce [one-action] (auditory, concentrate) Lefranek condemns 
an enemy within 30 feet as a Chelaxian dog and enemy 
of Isger. Until the start of Lefranek’s next turn, any 
Strikes she or her allies make against the creature do an 
additional 1d4 precision damage.
FALSE HELLBREAKERS (2)
CREATURE 1
Guard (Pathfinder NPC Core 110)
Initiative Perception +7
Block the Path [one-action] The false Hellbreaker prepares to harry 
anyone who tries to move past them. If it hits a creature 
with a Reactive Strike triggered by a move action, 
the triggering creature treats any squares within the 
False Hellbreaker

===== Page 85 =====
84
steward’s guard’s reach as difficult terrain until the start 
of the false Hellbreaker’s next turn.
GALA CROWD
HAZARD 4
UNIQUE
COMPLEX
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth –10 (+12 initiative)
Description The panicked crowd of gala attendees reacts to 
the unexpected attack.
Disable DC 19 Intimidation, DC 21 Diplomacy, or DC 24 
Athletics to get guests to move out of harm’s way; four 
total successes across all skills are required to disable 
the hazard
AC 18; Fort +11, Ref +11
HP 60; Weaknesses area 5
Panic at the Gala [reaction] Trigger A creature rolls initiative; Effect 
The crowd stampedes, dealing 4d6 bludgeoning damage 
to anyone on the great room floor (DC 20 basic Reflex 
save), then rolls initiative.
Routine (1 action) The crowd reacts in one of the following 
ways, determined by a d12 die roll:
•	 1–2 Hunker Down: The crowd freezes in fear. It 
provides lesser cover to all creatures in the great 
room for 1 round.
•	 3–4 Run!: Determine a random direction. Each creature 
in the area must succeed at a DC 21 Fortitude save or 
be moved 10 feet in that direction. On a critical failure, 
they’re also knocked prone. This is forced movement.
•	 5–6 Hysteria: The crowd’s dread is contagious. Each 
creature in the area must attempt a DC 21 Will save or 
become frightened 1 (frightened 2 on a critical failure). 
This is an emotion, fear, and mental effect.
•	 7–8 Wailing: The cries make it hard to concentrate. 
For 1 round, any creature in the area that attempts 
an action with the concentrate trait must succeed at 
a DC 4 flat check or the action is disrupted. This is an 
auditory effect.
•	 9–10 Crushing Press: Members of the crowd shove and 
push, trying to find a way to safety. Each creature in 
the area takes 2d8+5 bludgeoning damage (DC 21 basic 
Fortitude save).
•	 11–12 Wild Dismay: The chaos is overwhelming. Each 
creature in the area must attempt a DC 21 Will save or 
become confused for 1 round. This is an emotion and 
mental effect.
Development: If any PCs are dying following the 
battle with the false Hellbreakers, immediately resolve 
recovery checks or actions to save them, though they 
won’t have time immediately to Treat Wounds or use 
other exploration activities.
DEATH NOTICE
Once everyone is in a stable condition, read or 
paraphrase the following.
The tromp of heavy boots cuts short the continuing sound 
of screams and crying, silencing everything but the moans 
of the wounded. As armor-clad guards take up positions at 
all of the exits to the room, a Hellknight in full plate mail—
Paralictor Caeto Vulaunex—moves to the top of the stairs. 
The knights look slightly battered, as if they’ve just had their 
own battle.
Caeto looks down and calls out: “Ladies and gentlemen, I 
regret to inform you that Hedvend VI, steward of all Isger, 
has been murdered!” Gasps fill the room. “You are all under 
arrest until we get to the bottom of this. Remain in this room 
for your own safety. Certain magical defenses have activated 
with the attack, so leaving the manor could be dangerous. In 
addition, the guards outside will assume anyone who tries to 
leave is complicit in this heinous crime, and they will be dealt 
with accordingly.”
It should be clear to the PCs that trying to fight their 
way out past Caeto’s forces would almost certainly be 
a fatal mistake. The PCs have about an hour to recover 
before events conspire to force them to take action. 
Fessy approaches and offers to heal them if needed 
(she has four 2nd-rank heal spells in her divine font 
and offers to cast them as the PCs need, either now or 
later during this chapter). PCs also gain access to any 
benefits they receive from becoming level 5, such as an 
alchemist’s field discovery, additional spell slots, etc.
The other guests are in shock at the events of the last 
hour. They largely huddle in small groups, whispering 
about the events and what they might mean for Isger. 
Who will rule Isger going forward is a big topic among 
the more politically inclined as Hedvend VI had no 
clear successor.
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
The cast of this chapter is largely the same as in Chapter 
4, though several of the NPCs introduced there play 
different roles here:
CHAPTER ORGANIZATION
This chapter follows the PCs as they investigate 
Hedvend’s murder and has two different types 
of encounters, inquiries (starting page 88 in The 
Game’s Afoot) and plot events (starting page 92 in 
The Plot Thickens). Inquiries are encounters where 
the PCs investigate and learn information about 
the murder while plot events show what else is 
happening in the manor during the investigation.

===== Page 86 =====
85
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Steward Hedvend VI is dead, long unlive Steward 
Hedvend VI. In the immediate aftermath of Hedvend’s 
death, Caeto had his body moved to his bedroom 
and left to lie there in a respectful manner until his 
murder is solved and he can be properly buried. 
Unknown to Caeto, Ezio Gaeta transformed Hedvend 
into a vampire by using a unique talisman Illcayna 
created with her warshard to expedite the usual three-
day transformation process. Hedvend is partially 
under Ezio’s control and being used as a weapon to 
take out more of Elidir’s elite. However, the rapid 
transformation process has left him ravenously hungry 
and he is also feeding on random innocents in the 
mansion. When he’s not actively hunting, Hedvend 
climbs out of the manor and hides at Ezio’s command.
Caeto Vulaunex enlists the PCs’ help once a second 
body is discovered in the manor. Already impressed by 
the PCs for their fight in the great room, he knows they 
aren’t responsible for the second death because they are 
under guard at the time and concludes they are likely 
not responsible for Hedvend’s either. Caeto serves as an 
ally at this point, and PCs should be allowed to believe 
that he could, in the right circumstances, end up as a 
long-term friend in their struggle for Isger. While he is 
already privately planning how he will fill the vacuum 
left by Hedvend’s death, he remains interested in the 
investigation in the manor and checks in with the PCs 
on their progress. He can also be used to help push the 
investigation forward if needed, giving you a chance to 
lead players to hints if they appear stuck or frustrated.
Ezio Gaeta fully expected the mansion to be 
locked down after Hedvend’s murder, which he saw 
as a perfect opportunity to cause more death. He 
assumes the Hellbreakers League will take the blame 
for the night’s events, leaving him free to continue 
as Urgathoa’s agent among Isger’s new leadership. 
Ezio has multiple contingency plans ready including 
pinning the blame for the murder on Lezinia, whom 
he Dominated early in the evening. When the PCs get 
involved, he tries to befriend them so he can stay fully 
informed of their investigation and manipulate them 
as needed. He doesn’t reveal his true self until he is 
absolutely forced to.
I. Reevesrest
The steward’s home is made of fine wood, with 
reinforced doors, which are unlocked during the gala. 
The first floor is 15 feet high (except for parts of the 
great room that are open to the building’s roof, 25 feet 
up), and the second floor is 10 feet high. Most rooms 
have one or more fireplaces or braziers going to keep 
them warm against the cold Abadius weather. The 
windows are closed with wooden shutters, which are 
locked with a simple bar from the inside; from outside, 
the DC to Force them Open is 22. Magical lights 
provide bright light in the entire household. Below 
are basic descriptions of the areas; note that several of 
them have more specific details related to the mystery 
of Hedvend VI’s murder and the false Hellbreakers 
described later in the chapter.
I1: Vestibule: The dark wood of the formal entrance 
is engraved with numerous nearly invisible runes, 
which trigger magical traps. They are all deactivated 
during the gala.
I2. Great room: The stewards of Isger built the great 
room to impress visitors. The opulent chamber features 
high ceilings across much of the eastern portion of 
the room. A stage offers a place for musicians and 
other entertainers to perform. A grand staircase with 
painted balustrades leads to the second floor. The 
walls are painted with murals supposedly depicting 
Isger’s greatness.
I3. Library: The library, like the great room, is 
designed to impress visitors. Four of its walls are lined 
with shelves reaching to the ceiling, each filled with 
books. Ladders on rollers make it easy to reach the 
books on the upper shelves. The books are carefully 
curated to be acceptable to Chelaxian tastes.	
I4. Privy: Reevesrest contains several privies. The 
upstairs privies also contain bathtubs.
I5. Statue hall: This room has a statue of a stern-
looking woman wearing the amulet denoting Isger’s 
stewards. A plaque identifies her as Adraldine I, the 
first steward of Isger.
I6. Art gallery: The art gallery features valuable 
art and artifacts collected by stewards over the 
centuries. Large paintings hang on the wall showing 
scenes supposedly from Isger’s history, though 
designed to convey modern messages: the original 
Isgeri tribe surrendering to Taldor’s army, and later 
Cheliax coming to Isger’s rescue during the Even-
Tongued Conquest.
I7. Conservatory: Plants, many of them edible, 
grow in barrels in this greenhouse, which remains 
WHERE’S QUOSTER?
While Quoster is an important part of Chapter 4 
and plays a role again in Chapter 6, he has little 
to do in this chapter and is not a target of Ezio or 
Hedvend. He tries to keep his distance from the 
PCs so as not to tip off anyone to his deal with 
the Hellbreakers League and urges them to do the 
same if they approach him.

===== Page 87 =====
86
REEVESREST SECOND FLOOR
REEVESREST SECOND FLOOR
I17
I17
I18
I18
I4I4
I17
I17a
I14
I14
I15
I15
I13
I13
I12
I12
I11
I11
I10
I10
I4I4
I2I2
I1I1
I5I5
I3I3
I6I6
I8I8
I9I9
I7I7
I9I9
I16
I16
I21
I21
I4I4
I20
I20
I23
I23
I4I4
I19
I19
I22
I22
I9I9
REEVESREST FIRST FLOOR
REEVESREST FIRST FLOOR
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 88 =====
87
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
warm and moist thanks to druidic magic arranged 
by an early steward. Wide windows let in the light 
during the day.
I8. Kitchen: The well-stocked, well-equipped kitchen 
is designed to provide almost anything the steward or 
their guests could want at any time of day or night. A 
fire always burns here, and usually two or three chefs 
and bakers are cooking or ready to cook. That number 
increases to a half dozen during events like the gala.
I9. Storeroom: Reevesrest contains several well-
organized store rooms. On the first floor, the one 
attached to the conservatory contains gardening 
supplies, and one attached to the kitchen contains 
cooking staples (though most goods are brought in fresh 
daily). Upstairs, a larger storeroom contains linens.
I10. Dining room: A silver chandelier drips with 
crystals. The massive table is an incredible slab of black 
marble resting on an elaborate duskwood stand with 
feet carved to resemble a dragon’s. Duskwood chairs 
evoke Isger’s role in the Inner Sea, with a trading ship 
carved into the headrest and the armrests evoking the 
waves of the Conerica River.
I11. Servants’ parlor: This room serves as an 
entrance and gathering place for the manor’s servants. 
Shelves along the walls contain fine dishes, silverware 
and other such serving items.
I12. Servant’s quarters: Several servants—the 
majordomo, head chef, and chamberlain—live full-
time in the manor, staying in these small rooms. Each 
contains a bed, dresser and other personal effects.
I13. Guard post: This is the headquarters for 
the steward’s personal guard, who also take care 
of Reevesrest’s security. A table and several chairs 
let guards relax when they are not on duty but still 
required to stay available in case of emergency.
I14. Guard quarters: The heads of the steward’s 
guard live on the premises, in these rooms. Each 
contains a bed, as well as a chest containing their 
personal items.
I15: Armory: The armory contains a number of 
weapons of all types for the guards’ use.
I16. Upstairs landing: The grand staircase in the 
great room leads to the upper landing, which runs 
almost the entire length of the manor. The eastern 
portion is open so the steward and his closest guests 
can participate and be seen during events without 
having to mingle with those of lesser importance. 
Painted balustrades at about waist height for a human 
provide some minimal protection from a fall.
I17. Guest room: This impressive, opulent bedroom 
serves personal guests of the steward. It contains a large 
canopied bed and numerous dressers. Padded benches 
line the northern seating area, where guests can take 
in a view of the entire city through the floor-to-ceiling 
windows. An attached room (I17a) contains beds for a 
pair of servants or guards permitted to guests.
I18. Game room: This room offers a private, less 
formal area for the steward to relax with guests. It 
contains a game table with built-in drawer. A mounted 
cabinet on the wall contains pipes, tobacco, bottles of 
liquor, and crystal goblets.
I19. Hedvend’s bedroom: Hedvend’s bedroom is his 
primary living space. It includes a large, comfortable 
bed, dressers and chests for his clothing, and other 
personal items. Personal trophies, gifts, and other 
items celebrating him and his governorship of Isger 
hang on the walls.
I20. Private dining room: The upstairs dining room 
offers a smaller area where the steward can eat. Padded 
chairs surround a duskwood table, formal enough to 
not offend any guests here, but also more comfortable 
for a steward and their family to dine together.
I21. Private study: The private study contains 
Hedvend VI’s personal papers, including correspondence 
with other rulers and various other matters of state.
I22. Solarium: This octagonal room is designed 
for stewards to relax. It contains several comfortable 
THE A-HA MOMENT!
One of the most iconic moments in a good murder 
mystery is when the intrepid detective puts 
together all the assorted clues—the seemingly 
obvious facts and innocuous observations—
to suddenly realize who the culprit is (the 
investigator class plays heavily on this very idea). 
While a novel author has free rein to create that 
moment, it might not be as obvious for players 
in a tabletop roleplaying game. Some players 
who are attuned to such stories might pick up 
on some of the clues in the ensuing pages and 
piece them together. But for those who aren’t, 
you can offer skill checks to help the PCs make 
those connections—suggested skills and DCs are 
listed with many clues. (If the PCs are having 
fun with the mystery, you could even make the 
checks secretly, noting any success, and doling 
out realizations to the players later if they get 
stuck, or at dramatic moments.)
Another option is to have Caeto stop in to check 
up on the PCs and point out something they might 
be missing, though take care not to let him steal 
the spotlight as he’s busy preparing to declare 
martial law over Isger.

===== Page 89 =====
88
padded chairs and benches, as well as book cases filled 
with novels and other relaxing reads. Windows offer 
an expansive view of the city.
I23. Boudoir: This private bedroom in the 
steward’s apartments was designed for their 
family, offering separate quarters should they 
be needed. In the case of single stewards, like 
Hedvend VI, it officially serves as another 
guest quarters, though the secret door 
connecting it to the steward’s bed chamber 
gives easy access to occupants for 
romantic assignations. Lezinia and 
Hedvend have taken advantage 
of this private passage since 
she settled in the chamber 
following her arrival in Elidir 
several months ago.
THE GAME’S AFOOT
After about an hour, a nervous-looking 
servant approaches the PCs, informing them that 
Caeto Vulaunex wishes to speak with them. If they 
agree, she escorts them upstairs to the study (area I21), 
which Caeto has appropriated for his own uses as it 
gives him privacy, but also lets him easily step out to 
look down on what’s happening in the great room. If 
the PCs refuse to accompany her, Caeto comes down 
to ask them to meet with him. If they still refuse, he 
promises the PCs that no harm will come to them 
and they are not in trouble. Read or paraphrase the 
following:
“I’m told you were responsible for stopping those 
Hellbreakers from killing everyone at the gala. That, 
along with a new development, has convinced me you 
were not involved with this slaying. Given that, and your 
obvious skill, I would like to ask you to investigate what is 
happening here. I thought there was likely one or two more 
conspirators among the partygoers who I would uncover, 
but this new development…”
His expression darkens. “Someone, or something, killed 
one of my guards. I’m convinced there’s more going on 
here. However, following Hedvend’s death, I need to 
make sure the city and country are secure. My guards are 
talented, but they are not investigators. It would appear 
you are my best option. If you agree, you will be allowed 
free movement to investigate, though you will still not be 
allowed to leave the manor grounds until these murders 
are solved and the captor killed or in custody.”
This is an opportunity for the PCs to get themselves 
out of this situation and uncover the mystery of the 
false Hellbreakers. They could even earn favor with 
the apparent new leader of Isger, which would be a 
major opportunity for the League. Once the PCs agree, 
they have four likely initial approaches to begin 
solving the mystery: the false Hellbreakers, 
the murder scene, Hedvend’s corpse, and the 
slain guard. Give players the opportunity 
to decide what to do first, but Caeto can 
suggest any or all of those if they need help 
getting started. He tells the PCs to keep him 
informed of any developments, and that he 
will try to provide anything they need 
to help them solve the crimes. The 
inquiries below detail avenues 
of investigation the PCs might 
undertake, including ones that 
develop after the four initial 
approaches.
Inquiry: False Hellbreakers
Caeto had the false Hellbreakers taken to 
the guard post (area I13). Survivors are bound hand 
and foot with good-quality manacles. Caeto gives PCs 
free rein in their investigation except that the guards 
can’t be freed. Caeto has a single scroll of talking 
corpse available, which he allows the PCs to use if all 
of the guards are dead (Fessy can cast the spell if no 
PC is able to).
The lower-level fakes, including those that attacked 
the Hellknights, were guards that Ezio magically 
dominated. A PC can Coerce them into answering 
questions with an Intimidation check against their DC 
15 Will save. If the PCs attempt to use talking corpse 
on any deceased guards, they answer willingly and 
truthfully. Each tells the same tale: Lefranek brought 
them to the private dining room, supposedly to meet 
with Hedvend on a minor matter. Instead, they found 
a red-cloaked individual there. The last thing each 
remembers was looking into the figure’s eyes and 
feeling that they needed to obey their commands.
The leader of the false Hellbreaker attack, Lefranek 
Meyal, is an Urgathoan cultist who infiltrated 
Hedvend’s guards at Illcayna’s instructions. She has 
more knowledge of the plot, though she’s unaware of 
Ezio’s identity and his role in events. Before the gala, 
she received a coded message that instructed her to 
bring her fellow guards to Hedvend’s private dining 
room. There, Ezio cast dominate on them and sent 
them to kill as many guests at the gala as they could 
with Lefranek as their willing leader.
If alive, Lefranek is largely uncooperative during any 
attempts to get information, though the PCs can try 
several different methods. PCs can attempt to Coerce 
her with a DC 19 Intimidation check, but they take 
Lefranek

===== Page 90 =====
89
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
a –2 circumstance penalty, as Lefranek isn’t afraid of 
dying. With a successful DC 19 check to Sense Motive, 
a PC discerns this information; on a critical success, 
a PC realizes she’s afraid of dying without the 
chance to be turned into an undead, which 
they can use to negate the penalty. PCs 
could also try to trick her up in conversation 
with a successful DC 21 Diplomacy check 
or a DC 23 Deception to Impersonate 
another false Hellbreaker.
If Lefranek is dead, the PCs can attempt 
to use the scroll of talking corpse on her. If 
they successfully get her to talk, Lefranek 
brags about her role in the plot, calling 
it the first step in freeing Isger from the 
tyranny of Cheliax and delivering it for 
“the Bountiful Lady of Harvests.” A 
successful DC 20 Religion check reveals 
this is a title for Urgathoa based off an 
ancient Isgeri conception of her as a harvest goddess. 
Lefranek admits she delivered the other guards to a 
person in a red cloak, but truthfully says she doesn’t 
know who it was.
Treasure: Otton Nettlebrush approaches the PCs, 
finding them less intimidating than the Hellknights, 
and nervously informs them that he saw Lefranek 
leave a supply closet during the gala. Following his tip, 
the PCs uncover a staff of the dead and an intricately 
carved onyx skull for ritual practices worth 200 gp.
Reward: If the PCs get any information from any 
of the false Hellbreakers, award them 30 XP. Award 
them an additional 30 XP if they learn of Lefranek’s 
allegiance to Urgathoa.
Inquiry: Scene of the Crime
A solid wooden door hangs off its hinges, revealing a 
stately game room. The taxidermied heads of several 
monsters look down from the walls while the smoldering 
remains of a fire burn in the ornate fireplace.
An ivory and mahogany game table fills much of the 
space, with a half dozen well-cushioned chairs arranged 
around it. One chair at the head of the table is overturned 
and speckled with blood. In front of the overturned chair, 
a hand of cards is laid out face up on the table and a single 
key sits nearby. A second hand of cards rests face down in 
front of an adjacent seat.
Hedvend VI was in his game room passing the time 
before his grand entrance to the gala when he met with 
Ezio and his demise. After killing the steward, Ezio 
locked the door and slipped out using Mist Form. He 
returned to the party downstairs, where he waited for the 
inevitable discovery. A short time later, Caeto searched 
for the steward after the false Hellbreaker attacks and 
broke the door down, discovering Hedvend’s body.
The room offers a number of clues for observant 
PCs. Some players might notice these or ask 
specifically about these topics but if not, 
point out the clues to PCs who succeed at a 
listed skill check.
•  DC 18 Games Lore, DC 20 Society: Two 
sets of cards at the table suggest Hedvend 
knew his killer and was not surprised at their 
presence.
•  DC 20 Athletics or Perception: There are 
no signs of a struggle in the room, indicating 
that Hedvend was somehow subdued or that 
he had no chance to react to the attack 
(Ezio dominated Hedvend).
•  DC 20 Medicine or Perception: There 
are a few drops of blood in one of the 
chairs, but not enough to indicate a major wound 
(Ezio drank most of the blood).
•	 DC 20 Crafting or Thievery: The key is on 
the table next to where Hedvend was sitting, 
indicating that the room was locked from the 
inside and the killer was then able to leave the 
locked room.
In addition to the clues above that PCs can see with 
no real difficulty, they can Search the room. A PC who 
succeeds at a DC 18 Perception check notices a small 
brass hourglass talisman filled with a black sand under 
the table. This was a grave time talisman that Illcayna 
created with her warshard to expedite the process of 
transforming Hedvend into Ezio’s vampire servitor. 
Ezio affixed the talisman to Hedvend’s body but it was 
inadvertently knocked off by Caeto’s men when they 
moved the steward, leaving the talisman still intact 
and Hedvend in a state of near-feral perpetual hunger.
A PC who closely examines the hourglass can 
attempt a DC 20 Nature check; on a success they 
realize the sand is actually onyx. With a successful DC 
22 Religion check to Recall Knowledge, a PC is aware 
that onyx is used in rituals to create undead. A PC can 
also attempt to Identify Magic on the talisman with a 
DC 22 Religion check; on a success, the PC understands 
the item would affect the flow of time on a body, 
likely to preserve it or accelerate its decomposition. 
Note any critical success on this check—when the PCs 
start realizing a vampire is involved in the murders, 
the PC realizes the talisman could also make it as if 
three nights had passed in an instant, the time typically 
required for a creature to be buried in the earth before 
turning into a vampire servitor.
Grave Time Talisman

===== Page 91 =====
90
Treasure: Underneath a table is an onyx idol of 
Urgathoa worth 10 gp. 
Reward: If the PCs discover the grave time talisman, 
award them 30 XP. Award them an additional 30 XP 
if they discover either the presence of onyx or identify 
the talisman’s purpose.
Inquiry: Hedvend’s Body
Hedvend’s body was taken to his private quarters, 
where it was laid on his bed. A single Hellknight 
stands guard at the ornate double doors that lead 
into the room, but she allows the PCs to enter freely. 
Unfortunately, the PCs’ efforts to examine the body 
are doomed to failure: Hedvend’s body is missing!
Thick velvet maroon curtains cover the walls and 
a bearskin rug covers the floor of this luxurious 
grand bedroom. A glaive seemingly made of 
folded silver hangs as a trophy above the fireplace, 
where flames dance in a cold breeze. A drift of snow 
and a melting puddle both grow beneath an open 
window. Against the southern wall, a neatly made 
canopy bed shows no sign of an occupant except for a 
slight indent in the heavy quilt.
A closer examination of the scene reveals what 
appears to be a few handfuls of dirt scattered across 
the bed. PCs who investigate the dirt can attempt a 
DC 20 Nature check. On a success, they recognize it 
as freshly dug soil, likely from the manor grounds; a 
requirement for the steward’s vampiric awakening. 
Upon awakening as undead, Hedvend VI escaped 
out the window, which he left open. (A PC can 
attempt a DC 20 Nature or Survival check to realize 
the snow and puddle indicate the window was 
opened only recently).
In addition to the clues above that PCs can see 
with no real difficulty, they can Search the room. If 
their check exceeds the DC listed below, they discover 
additional clues:
•	 DC 20: The rug also has dirt on it, as if it were 
tracked into the room at some point. (If they 
choose to investigate it, see the Soiled Sheets 
Inquiry on page 91.)
•	 DC 22: Small scratches on the floor against the 
western wall indicate a secret door leading into 
the suite’s boudoir (installed decades ago to allow 
discrete assignations).
•	 DC 30: The tracks on the rug clearly were made 
by a Small creature wearing shoes. It appears 
whoever made them came in from the secret door 
in the west, moved to the bed, then turned around 
and retraced their steps.
The Hellknight guard is shocked if the PCs inform 
her that Hedvend’s body is missing and rushes in 
to verify the claim. Other than the PCs, she 
hasn’t seen anyone enter or exit since she was 
placed here to guard the body. She was unaware of 
the secret door and had no reason to think anyone 
could enter or exit Hedvend’s bedroom without 
her knowledge.
Treasure: A PC who Searched the room (DC 
20) discovers a hidden compartment with ledgers 
tracking bribes and corruption in and outside of the 
city. This ledger is worth 400 gp to the right people, 
though it might be worth even more to others. An 
astute PC also notices the glaive is a magical item, but 
the PCs won’t have the opportunity to claim 
it for themselves until Chapter 6.
Reward: If the PCs discover the tracks in 
Hedvend’s room, award them 30 XP.
Inquiry: Second Victim
One of the manor guards was searching for clues 
to Hedvend’s murder in the guest room when the 
vampire steward slipped in from outside and ripped 
out his throat before drinking as much of the guard’s 
blood as he could. When the PCs enter the room, read 
or paraphrase the following:
A small spray of blood covers the floor around a corpse in 
chain mail and the uniform of the manor guard. A frozen 
expression of shock remains on the man’s face above 
where his throat was brutally torn out.
A PC can attempt a Medicine check to examine the 
body. If their check exceeds the DC listed below, they 
learn the following:
•	 DC 18: It appears the guard’s throat was torn out 
by claws.
•	 DC 20: Based on the lack of any defensive wounds, 
the guard likely was taken by surprise.
•	 DC 22: There’s less blood than there should 
be based on the guard’s size. The spray looks 
like it came from the killing blow, but there’s a 
conspicuous lack of a pool of blood afterward.
•	 DC 25: The guard has fang marks on his neck, which 
likely were made moments after he was killed.
A PC can also attempt a DC 20 Perception check to 
examine the room. On a success, they discover the floor 
is slightly damp around the window A DC 20 Nature 
or Survival check indicates the dampness is because 
the window was opened briefly, allowing in snow that 
then melted; Hedvend moved in and out of the room by 
opening the window with telekinetic hand.
 Lifebloom

===== Page 92 =====
91
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Reward: Award the PCs 30 XP for each discovery 
they make here, up to 150 XP if they learn everything 
about the body and the open window.
Inquiry: Private Dining Room
Fortunately for the PCs, while Ezio 
is a canny conspirator, Lefranek was 
far less capable. As she prepared for the 
false Hellbreaker attack in the private 
dining room, Lefranek left her devil 
costume and other incriminating items here. 
PCs can discover these items if they search 
this room, which is where Lefranek brought 
the guards to be dominated.
In addition to Lefranek’s discarded 
devil costume, the PCs find 12 
vertebrae fused into a column. Each 
vertebrae spins independently and is 
inscribed with several letters in Necril. The device is 
a magical wheel cipher, used by agents of Urgathoa 
to send coded messages. The most recent message 
was: “Bring the guards to a servant cloaked in our 
most sacred color. Illcayna will reward you when 
Isger is hers.”
•	 A PC who succeeds at a DC 15 Medicine check 
recognizes the vertebrae as part of a human spine.
•	 A PC who succeeds at a DC 20 Crafting or 
Society check to Recall Knowledge recognizes the 
contraption is a wheel cipher used to encode and 
decode messages.
•	 A PC who succeeds at a DC 20 Religion check to 
Recall Knowledge recognizes the wheel cipher as 
a tool used by agents of Urgathoa.
•	 A PC can attempt a DC 20 Arcana, Nature, 
Religion, or Occultism check to Identify Magic. 
Doing so gives them a +2 circumstance bonus on 
a Society check to Decipher Writing, or +4 on a 
critical success.
Finally, a PC can attempt a DC 25 Society check 
to Decipher Writing; on a success they decipher 
enough of the message to understand it included 
instructions from an Urgathoan, telling the recipient 
to bring their fellow guards to a red-cloaked man in 
the dining room, and that the plot was masterminded 
by someone named Illcayna, who seeks control of 
the country.
Treasure: Left on the table by Lefranek is a platter 
of putrid dreams (page 199) and a skeleton key.
Reward: Award the PCs 30 XP if they succeed 
on at least one check to learn about the Urgathoan 
wheel cipher. If they Decipher the Writing and learn 
the message, award them an additional 80 XP.
Inquiry: Soiled Sheets
Moderate 5
PCs who become aware of the dirty tracks in 
Hedvend’s bedroom or the boudoir might want to 
follow them, which they can attempt to do with a DC 
20 Survival check to Track (on a critical success, they 
make out enough details to determine the dirt comes 
from a Small creature wearing shoes and with a tail 
that dragged through the soil). The tracks lead from 
Hedvend’s bedroom, through the secret door into the 
boudoir, and then through the halls to the servant 
stairway in the western part of the manor, before 
ultimately leading outside through the servant’s 
entrance to the family mausoleum.
A large stone mausoleum is lit by softly 
glowing everlight crystals, which almost 
seem to sparkle in the falling snow. 
Trimmed hedges, small trees, and a few 
topiaries surround the historic resting place 
of stewards, creating a sense of serenity, 
even amid the storm.
Use the map on page 92. The winter storm imposes 
a –2 circumstance penalty to Perception checks and 
physical ranged attacks, snuffs out handheld flames, 
and makes creatures concealed if they’re more than 
30 feet away. The snow cover makes the entire area 
difficult terrain. Although it’s likely nighttime when the 
PCs investigate, the area in a 60-foot radius around the 
mausoleum is in bright light (and then dim light for 
another 60 feet) due to the crystals’ light reflecting on 
falling snow.
Creatures: Unfortunately for the PCs, Ezio’s attack 
on Hedvend activated some of the manor’s magical 
defenses. They don’t respond to manor servants but the 
PCs don’t have that protection, and three topiaries leave 
their perches and attack. They fight until destroyed.
HOUND TOPIARIES (2)	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder Monster Core 2 214
Initiative Perception +9
TIGER TOPIARY	
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder Monster Core 2 214
Initiative Perception +14
Development: After the fight, PCs can attempt a DC 
18 Perception check to search around the mausoleum. 
On a success, they find a small recently dug hole in the 
soil, and an imp tail torn off one of the costumes being 
worn by the manor servants. PCs who investigate the 
mausoleum discover that it’s locked, with no evidence 
that it’s been opened anytime recently.
Urgathoan Wheel Cipher

===== Page 93 =====
92
PCs can attempt to find the servant with a DC 20 
Diplomacy check to Gather Information, Perception 
check to spot them, or Survival check to Track. If they 
succeed, the scared servant confesses that a person in 
a red cloak with burning eyes told them to go dig up 
the dirt from outside the mausoleum and put it on 
Hedvend’s body, which was in the bedroom at the 
time. The servant doesn’t remember any other details 
about the person in the cloak.
Treasure: The PCs discover a primeval mistletoe 
among the remains of the living topiaries.
Reward: Award the PCs 30 XP if they successfully 
track the soil to the servant.
Inquiry: The Red Cloak
The PCs might want to find the red cloak that Ezio 
wore while dominating a number of people in the 
gala. Unfortunately, he hid it in Lezinia’s closet in the 
boudoir. Unless they begin a room-by-room search, 
this is a dead end, leading to more Murders in the 
Night events and making Ezio aware the PCs know 
about the cloak and are searching for it. Should the 
PCs somehow find it ahead of Ezio’s schedule, he 
brings it up later in Lezinia Has Left the Building.
The Plot Thickens
Events don’t remain static in the mansion as the PCs 
investigate. While most of the NPCs wait anxiously, 
some wander around the mansion, falling prey to 
Hedvend—either to sate his hunger or at Ezio’s 
instructions. Ezio, meanwhile, works to obfuscate his 
role and create confusion. The events likely occur in 
generally the following order, though some might need 
to happen sooner or later depending on what the PCs do 
and your needs to keep the story engaging for players.
EVENT: EZIO GETS INVOLVED
Ezio becomes concerned when he sees Caeto summon 
the PCs at the start of the chapter, and decides he needs 
to involve himself with this unexpected complication 
to his plans. He approaches them the first time they 
descend from the second floor after their meeting with 
Caeto, likely during the False Hellbreakers or Get the 
Dirt inquiry. He plays the role of concerned guest, 
asking PCs for information about what’s happening. 
If the PCs successfully influenced him at all during 
the previous chapter, he offers to help them again, 
suggesting he could facilitate any discussions with 
other guests thanks to his connections or anything 
else the PCs need. He attempts to keep tabs on the 
PCs throughout the course of this chapter, steering 
them in directions he wants while disrupting their 
investigation as much as possible. He doesn’t take the 
risk of attempting to Dominate them, however.
EVENT: MURDERS IN THE NIGHT
Hedvend strikes again, killing another person in the 
mansion. This event occurs multiple times over the 
course of the night, repeating every hour or so until 
the PCs discover the murderer(s), adding urgency to 
the PCs’ investigation and possibly narrowing their 
pool of suspects. In terms of gameplay, the event likely 
follows every 1–2 completed inquiries. While several 
of the targets are selected to weaken Isger, others are 
random victims of Hedvend’s hunger. Ezio’s targets 
are killed in the following order, interspersed with 
unfortunate guards and servants. The location and 
circumstances of the deaths are included below, while 
the guards and servants can be found in any room 
with access to outside.
•	 Merpelia Carafo, whom Ezio targets to end her 
support of Isger’s army, is murdered in the gallery.
•	 Ambassador Vrig, targeted to prevent any chance 
of an alliance with Oprak, is killed in the library.
•	 Sastoli Brunc, whose command of the docks 
facilitates Isger’s trade, is killed in the kitchen 
(Hedvend climbs down through the chimney).
•	 Colonel Rithert, an important logistics officer in 
the Army, in the conservatory.
With a successful DC 20 Perception check to 
examine a body, a PC reveals a pair of fang marks 
on the victim’s neck. A PC who succeeds at a DC 20 
MAUSOLEUM
MAUSOLEUM
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 94 =====
93
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Medicine check to examine the body reveals the 
same, and that the likely cause of death appears to be 
exsanguination.
The first time a named target is killed, the PCs can 
attempt a DC 21 Isger Lore check or DC 23 Society 
check to Recall Knowledge to realize the death would 
be an additional blow to Isger’s government. For each 
subsequent named target, reduce the DC by 1. They 
can attempt the same check, at the current DC, after 
each guard or servant’s death to realize that they don’t 
seem to fit the pattern, and could have simply been in 
the wrong place at the wrong time.
A PC who wants to learn more about a victim’s 
actions or behavior in their final moments can attempt 
a Diplomacy check to Gather Information. The DC 
for an unnamed servant or guard is 20, with a success 
revealing they were acting normally and doing their 
job. The DC for a named victim begins at 25, and goes 
down by 1 for each subsequent victim. On a success, 
PCs can learn that the victim was last seen speaking 
with Ezio. On a critical success, PCs learn that they 
seemed to be having an intense conversation with a 
lot of direct eye contact, before the victim seemed 
to just turn and wander away. See Event: The Alibi 
Attack (below) and The Jig Is Up (page 94) for Ezio’s 
reactions if they confront him.
After Ambassador Vrig’s death, and each subsequent 
death, a PC can attempt a DC 20 Architecture Lore or 
DC 22 Crafting check to Recall Knowledge to realize 
the each death is occurring in a room with a window 
to the outside, or in a room that has a chimney.
Development: If the PCs realize all the deaths are in 
rooms with access to outside, they can warn guests to 
avoid them. This prevents any further reoccurrences 
of this event.
Reward: If the PCs learn any of the deaths are 
intended to harm the Isgeri government, award them 
30 XP. If they learn of Ezio’s conversations with any 
of the victims, award them an additional 30 XP. If the 
PCs warn gala guests to stay out of rooms with access 
to the outdoors, award them 80 XP.
EVENT: THE ALIBI ATTACK
It’s possible the PCs become suspicious of Ezio early in 
this chapter, likely if they discover he was seen talking 
with a named victim of Hedvend in a Murders in the 
Night event. If they attempt to question or confront 
him, he triggers this event. Allow the PCs to have a 
brief interaction with Ezio, who rejects any allegations 
of culpability in the night’s events. Even as he talks to 
the PCs, he telepathically commands Hedvend to go to 
the servants’ parlor (area I11) and kill the first creature 
he sees there (if the PCs happen to be in the servants’ 
parlor, the killing takes place outside the upstairs 
storeroom). The PCs’ questioning is then interrupted 
either by a scream if they’re near the murder scene or 
the panicked arrival of a servant.
Unlike most of the murders Ezio orchestrates, 
the hurried nature of this one leaves a witness: the 
unfortunate Otton Nettlebrush. He babbles that 
something was trying to eat the human woman who 
now lies dead and bleeding on the floor. A PC can 
attempt to calm him down with a DC 20 Diplomacy 
or Medicine or a DC 22 Intimidation check. If they 
succeed, Otton tearfully admits it looked like Hedvend 
before it scrambled outside when he screamed (either 
through the door or, if the attack occurred upstairs, 
through the window).
Development: If the PCs return to the conversation 
with Ezio, he attempts to lead them to the conclusion 
that he can’t be responsible since there was another 
killing while he was in their presence without outright 
saying so. If the PCs press the issue, he triggers Event: 
Lezinia Has Left the Building (page 94), and the 
mystery moves into its end game.
EVENT: EXTERMINATE THE PESTS	
LOW 5
As the PCs’ investigation progresses, they increasingly 
threaten Ezio’s plan and he decides to eliminate them. 
This event should occur sometime after he approaches 
the PCs for the first time, likely after they have 
completed one or two more inquiries and might have 
discovered signs that point to a vampire in Reevesrest 
but not yet be certain of its presence. It can take place 
anywhere in the manor, but you might want to choose 
an area where the PCs haven’t spent much time (and 
haven’t had a fight before), such as the conservatory, 
downstairs dining room, gallery, or library.
Hazard: Ezio summons creatures of the night from 
the city environs, directing them to kill the PCs. The 
creatures, which are represented as a hazard, enter the 
building through the foundations and chimneys and 
make their way to the PCs. The hazard occupies the 
entire room where this encounter occurs.
CREATURES OF THE NIGHT	
HAZARD 6
COMPLEX
DIVINE
Stealth +19
Description Bats and rats swarm around Ezio’s enemies.
Disable DC 24 Nature or Religion (trained) to scatter the 
vermin; two successes are required to disable it
AC 21; Fort +11, Ref +17, Will +15
HP 54 (BT 27); Weaknesses area damage 6, splash damage 
6; Resistances bludgeoning 6, piercing 6, slashing 6
Infest [reaction] Trigger Ezio summons the swarms; Effect The 
swarms coalesce in nauseating fashion. Each creature

===== Page 95 =====
94
in the room must succeed at a DC 24 Fortitude save or 
become sickened 1 (sickened 2 on a critical failure). The 
hazard then rolls initiative.
Routine (1 action) The bats and rats bite all 
creatures in the room, doing 2d8+3 piercing 
damage (DC 24 basic Reflex save). On a 
failure, the creature also takes 3 persistent 
bleed damage.
Development: After the PCs defeat 
the swarms, they can attempt a DC 22 
Religion check to Recall Knowledge. 
On a success, they know that some 
vampires 
can 
summon 
such 
creatures and communicate with 
them telepathically if they’re 
within 100 feet, which means 
almost certainly somewhere in the 
manor. On a critical success, they also 
know only more powerful vampires have 
such abilities, and such creatures can also 
likely turn into mist and dominate lesser-minded 
creatures.
EVENT: FESSY’S FEAR
LOW 5
Ezio’s contingency plan involves implicating Lezinia, 
but he’s cunning enough to also try to remove a 
potential threat to himself and source of support for 
the PCs: Fessy. He sends the dominated Chelaxian 
diva to suggest that Fessy find somewhere safe to rest 
and refresh. Lezinia also provides her with a scroll to 
summon a celestial that she claims she acquired in 
Cheliax in case of devil attack. In truth the scroll is from 
Ezio, and it’s tainted by Illcayna’s warshard. The scared 
gnome cleric hides in the private dining room, where 
she locks the door and falls into an exhausted sleep.
This event ideally occurs if the PCs look for Fessy to 
help heal them following a battle. A servant informs 
them that she went to the private dining room on 
the second floor (area I20) a short while ago. If the 
PCs don’t need Fessy’s help, this event occurs after 
Exterminate the Pests but before Colonel Rithert’s 
murder by Hedvend. A servant timidly approaches the 
PCs to express concern about Fessy after seeing her go 
into the private dining room and never emerge.
The door is locked, but a PC can open it with three 
successful DC 20 Thievery checks or Force it Open 
with a successful DC 20 Athletics check. In either 
case, the noise startles Fessy awake and she quickly 
casts from the scroll, summoning a gnokesh just as 
the PCs open the door.
Creatures: Filled with battle lust by the warshard-
tainted scroll, the gnokesh takes the PCs for threats 
and attacks, castigating them as devil worshippers. 
It continues fighting until slain, despite not being 
sustained, and ignores any attempts to appeal to 
its true nature or attempts to stop or 
Dismiss it.
ELITE GNOKESH	
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder Monster Core 2 6, 36
Initiative Perception +17
Development: Following the fight, Fessy 
tearfully apologizes. If she has any heal 
spells remaining in her divine font, she insists 
on using them to heal any injured PCs. 
She informs them that Lezinia suggested 
she find a safe spot to rest and gave her 
the scroll to protect herself. A PC can 
also attempt a DC 20 Religion check 
to Identify Magic. On a success, 
they recognize that the scroll appears 
to have been tainted somehow so that the 
celestial it summoned was enraged.
If the PCs question Lezinia, she remembers getting 
the scroll in Cheliax, but doesn’t recall details. A DC 
20 Perception check to Sense Motive reveals her lack 
of memory seems unusual; she’s not so successful that 
getting such a scroll would be a small matter. On a 
critical success, a PC realizes her memory has been 
magically tampered with (though not that she’s still 
currently dominated).
Treasure: As an apology for setting the gnokesh 
on them, Fessy insists the PCs take her lesser elixir 
of life and marvelous miniature (horse) to make up 
for it.
The Jig Is Up
By the time they have completed all the inquiries, 
the PCs should have a strong suspicion of vampiric 
activity. They likely know that Hedvend was killed 
by a vampire, turned into one himself, and killed a 
number of people in the last few hours. Some PCs 
might prioritize finding Hedvend, but Ezio tries to 
turn their attention to Lezinia.
EVENT: LEZINIA HAS LEFT THE BUILDING	

MODERATE 5
This event occurs signals the start of the end game. 
If the PCs confront Ezio and his Alibi Attack fails to 
divert attention from him, he triggers it. Otherwise, 
it should happen after the PCs have completed all 
available inquiries or after Colonel Rithert has been 
killed by Hedvend. With telepathic prompting from 
Ezio, Lezinia loudly decides she does not need to stick 
Fessy

===== Page 96 =====
95
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
around for this investigation, and how dare anyone 
try to make her! She storms out the front door only to 
run into the aurocan patrolling the manor walls. 
The terror is enough to break briefly break 
Ezio’s hold on her, and she flees back into 
the manor with the guards in hot pursuit.
Creatures: Lezinia races to hide behind 
the PCs as the aurocan attacks. It fights 
until either it’s destroyed or the PCs 
convince it they’re not trying to escape.
WEAK AUROCAN
CREATURE 7
Pathfinder Monster Core 7, page 223
Initiative Perception +14; darkvision
Suspicious Diva: Following the 
fight, Caeto orders the terrified 
singer back to the boudoir and 
declares that no one may enter or 
leave that room without his express 
permission. 
A 
concerned-looking 
Ezio approaches the PC, with whom he 
says he has the best relationship, and voices his 
suspicions of Lezinia.
If Ezio is aware the PCs learned about the red 
cloak he wore earlier in the evening (which he hid in 
Lezinia’s closet), he suggests they search her room If 
the PCs follow his advice, a guard insists they can’t 
enter without Caeto accompanying him. Caeto joins 
them at their request.
This scene concludes with Lezinia—under Ezio’s 
control—ultimately confessing to killing Hedvend, 
but how exactly that plays out depends on the PCs’ 
actions. If they come in and accuse her, she confesses 
immediately. If they instead want to search the 
room, she petulantly allows it. A DC 10 Perception 
check to search the room reveals a red cloak balled 
up around several magical items in the back of 
Lezinia’s closet; on a critical success, the PC realizes 
there were a number of places it could have been 
hidden that would have made it far more difficult 
to find.
Once the PCs accuse her—or if they go to leave 
without doing so—Lezinia confesses in dramatic 
fashion. Read or paraphrase the following:
“Fine,” Lezinia suddenly declares. “You caught me! I did it! 
I killed that miserable old man! He promised me he would 
marry me and make me queen of Isger. That’s what tonight 
was supposed to be about, our engagement! But then he 
said he wasn’t going to do it; when he still wouldn’t agree 
to marry me, I killed him! I don’t know what happened 
afterward!” She breaks down in sobs.
Because the confession is pure fantasy, Lezinia has 
few other details she’s able to give the PCs and can’t 
say how she supposedly killed Hedvend. She 
claims she took the items because he owed 
them to her and wrapped it in the first 
cloak she found.
If a PC is suspicious, they can attempt a 
DC 20 Perception check to Sense Motive. 
On a success, they know Lezinia isn’t acting 
normally, while a critical success reveals she’s 
certainly being magically controlled.
Regardless of the PCs’ reactions, 
Caeto is suspicious of the unexpected 
confession and Lezinia’s ability to pull 
off such a calculated murder. He 
insists the PCs find some way to 
test if she is a vampire, but if they 
don’t have any other options, he 
says they should go get a leftover 
caramelized garlic tart from 
the kitchen and test her with that. 
The reference to garlic calls back to the No Thank You 
Bite event in Chapter 4 (page 81), pointing to Ezio’s 
true status as a vampire; GMs might want to remind 
players of that moment if they’ve forgotten, but give 
them a chance to make the connection themselves first. 
Alternatively, Caeto could question why they suspected 
Lezinia, also directing them back toward Ezio.
Lezinia fails whatever test the PCs attempt to 
determine whether she’s a vampire, but she continues 
to proclaim her guilt. A PC can convince her that she’s 
not a vampire or a murderer with a DC 20 Diplomacy 
or Intimidation check. If they are successful, Lezinia 
is confused about why she confessed. She admits that 
nothing she said is true; she and Hedvend were in a 
relationship but he hadn’t promised her anything, but 
can’t explain anything else.
Treasure: If the PCs persuade Lezinia that she was 
not the killer, she rewards them with 200 gp in jewelry 
gifted to her by Hedvend and the greater whispering 
wire (page 212) and oil of revelation that were 
wrapped with the cloak.
Reward: Award the PCs 30 XP if they persuade 
Lezinia that she is not a murderer. Award an additional 
80 XP if they put the pieces together and realize Ezio’s 
guilt after this inquiry.
Inquiry: Hunting for Hedvend VI	
Severe 5
Once the PCs realize a vampiric Hedvend is stalking 
the mansion, their first inclination might be to try 
to find him, either by setting up a trap for him or 
hunting him down. Caeto gives them free rein to do 
either, though declines to participate. He expresses 
Lezinia

===== Page 97 =====
96
confidence in the PCs’ abilities while at the same time 
remaining busy making sure the attack in the manor 
isn’t a prelude to a full-scale surprise Hellbreaker 
attack on Elidir.
Setting a Trap: Following the Murders in the 
Night event, if the PCs learn that Hedvend is killing 
people important to the Isgeri government and 
that his killings all occur in rooms with access to 
the outdoors, they have all the information they 
need to set a trap; all they require is bait. They 
can determine who would make sense to use as a 
stalking horse with a successful DC 20 Diplomacy 
check to Gather Information or Society check to 
Recall Knowledge—a success reveals that any of the 
still-living named victims from the Murders in the 
Night event would serve well in that role, as would 
Rencelos Azri. A critical success reveals that Fessy 
would also be an option.
The next challenge is persuading the bait to play 
the role. A PC can do so with a successful DC 20 
Deception check to try to trick them into going alone 
into the PC’s ambush site, a DC 22 Diplomacy check 
to try to persuade them, or a DC 24 Intimidation 
check to try to make them. If the PCs attempt to get 
Fessy to be the bait, she automatically agrees to help.
Once they have a potential victim, the PCs can 
choose any Reevesrest location they want for the 
ambush other than the great room, which remains 
crowded. Allow them to make any preparations they 
want. Once they’re ready, they can attempt a DC 6 
flat check every 15 minutes; on a success, Hedvend 
enters the room and attacks.
Pursuing the Killer: The PCs might want to look 
for Hedvend’s tracks once they realize he’s likely 
hiding outside between murders in the manor but 
the snowstorm outside makes this difficult. If they 
persevere, the PCs can track him to the roof of the 
mausoleum with a successful DC 25 Survival check to 
Track. If they’re successful, the conditions are likely 
to make this a more difficult fight. Although it’s likely 
still nighttime, the area in a 60-foot radius around 
the mausoleum is in bright light (and then dim light 
for another 60 feet) due to the everlight crystals’ light 
reflecting on falling snow. The winter storm imposes 
a –2 circumstance penalty to Perception checks and 
physical ranged attacks, snuffs handheld flames (such 
as from a torch or candle), and makes creatures 
concealed if they’re more than 30 feet away. The 
snow cover makes the entire area difficult terrain.
Ezio’s Involvement: By the time the PCs face 
Hedvend, Ezio is fully aware of the threat they 
pose to him and, more importantly, Illcayna’s plans. 
Considering the secluded nature of this encounter, he 
sees it as an opportunity to eliminate the PCs and 
blame it on Hedvend. If you feel that Ezio wouldn’t 
have reason to think the PCs are suspicious of him by 
the time they face Hedvend, he’ll instead face them 
one-on-one later in the evening.
The PCs might be more concerned with Ezio than 
Hedvend once they realize that he’s the original killer 
and manipulating events around he gala. They can 
choose where and how to stage any confrontation, 
making any necessary preparations. If the PCs 
confront him, Ezio initially denies any responsibility 
but finally acknowledges he’s lost once the PCs lay 
out all their evidence.
If the PCs confront Ezio before hunting down 
Hedvend, Ezio smiles and compliments the PCs on 
their investigative work, acknowledging that he 
would likely have gotten away with it if it weren’t 
for them. “Let the devil worshippers and the rebels 
fight,” he says. “In the end when they fall, our undead 
army will grow fat with their blood and bodies, and 
we will reclaim this land for the Pallid Princess! No 
more will our resources go to feed others. Isger will 
be for Isger and Urgathoa!”
Creatures: Hedvend VI, consumed with hunger, 
fights until destroyed. If the PCs used an NPC as bait 
to set a trap, that character flees at the start of the 
first round of combat. Ezio rolls initiative at the start 
of the second round of combat and joins the fight at 
his initiative spot in that round. He enters through 
a door from the manor interior, using his Change 
Shape ability if necessary. Fully cognizant that he will 
be exposed if he doesn’t kill all the PCs and expecting 
that his Cloud of Plague ability will preserve his 
unlife, Ezio fights until reduced to 0 HP. If Ezio isn’t 
involved in this fight, it becomes a trivial encounter.
Ezio fights until reduced to 0 HP, and fully expects 
to be able to revive with Cloud of Plague. If Hedvend 
VI hasn’t been destroyed, Ezio summons the vampire 
steward to aid him. Roll initiative for Hedvend VI, 
who arrives in 1d3 rounds; if the battle takes place in 
CLEAR-MINDED DIVA
There is a small chance that Lezinia will no longer 
be dominated by Ezio if the PCs discerned that she 
was under some control and successfully dispelled 
the magic. In that case, she doesn’t confess but 
gives the PCs the obsidian goggles as a reward for 
saving her life, automatically letting them see the 
red cloak in the closet (which they might also find 
if they search the room).

===== Page 98 =====
97
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
a room with access to the outdoors, he instead arrives 
in 1d2 rounds. If Hedvend isn’t involved in this fight, 
it becomes a moderate encounter.
HEDVEND VI
CREATURE 5
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
UNHOLY
VAMPIRE
Male vampire spawn
Perception +12; darkvision
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Arcana +13, Athletics +13, Deception +12, Diplomacy 
+13, Intimidation +11, Religion +11, Society +13
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +2, Int +5, Wis +0, Cha +2
AC 21; Fort +15, Ref +9, Will +12
HP 70, fast healing 5, void healing; Immunities death 
effects, disease, paralyzed, poison, sleep; Resistances 
physical 5 (except silver)
Vampire Vulnerabilities (Monster Core 334)
Speed 25 feet, climb 25 feet
Melee [one-action] claw +14 (agile), Damage 2d4+6 slashing plus 
Grab
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 22, attack +14; 3rd 
paralyze, vampiric feast; 2nd revealing light, 
telekinetic maneuver; Cantrips (3rd) gouging claw, 
live wire PC2, shield, telekinetic hand, telekinetic 
projectile
Dominate [two-actions] (divine, incapacitation, mental, visual) 
DC 22
Drink Blood [one-action] (divine) When Drinking Blood, Hedvend 
VI regains 10 HP.
Spellstrike [two-actions] Frequency until recharged; Effect 
Hedvend VI channels a spell into his claw Strike to 
deliver a combined attack. He Casts a Spell that requires 
a spell attack roll. The effects of the spell don’t occur 
immediately but are imbued into his attack instead. 
He attempts a claw melee Strike, with the attack roll 
determining the effects of both the Strike and the 
spell. This counts as two attacks for his multiple attack 
penalty, but he doesn’t apply the penalty until after he’s 
completed the Spellstrike. The infusion of spell energy 
grants his Strike the arcane trait, making it magical. 
After he uses Spellstrike, he can’t do so again until he 
recharges his Spellstrike as a single action, which has 
the concentrate trait. He also recharge his Spellstrike 
when he Drinks Blood.
EZIO GAETA	
CREATURE 7
Page 240
Initiative Perception +16
Epilogue
Following their victory, the PCs discover a skeletal 
encryption ring Ezio used to send coded messages to 
his agents hidden as part of his costume. The discovery 
allows them to decrypt the wheel cipher they found 
among Lefranek’s items (if they haven’t already), 
revealing for certain that an Urgathoan faction has 
gotten involved in the battle for Isger, though there’s 
no information about where they’re based or what 
their next plan is.
Caeto thanks the PCs for solving Hedvend’s murder 
and uncovering Ezio’s perfidy. He promises he will 
do everything he can in his power to build a better 
country that works for all its citizens. The PCs can 
tell he is sincere about this. He tells them he hopes 
they’ll be part of his efforts and allows everyone to 
depart for home.
Treasure: Caeto gives the PCs an imposing shield 
(page 213) and dreamcrusher (page 213) as a reward 
for their work.
Hedvend VI

===== Page 99 =====
98
Following the PCs’ victory over Ezio and the 
transformed Hedvend VI, they’re able to regroup with 
their fellow Hellbreakers and celebrate their successful 
mission in recruiting Quoster. Unfortunately, they wake 
the next morning to learn of disaster: Caeto Vulaunex 
has declared martial law and is locking down the city 
so he can “catch the Hellbreaker assassins and bring 
them to justice.” The Hellbreakers are now trapped in 
enemy territory and framed for murder! They must 
find a way to escape the city before they’re hunted 
down. Fortunately, they’ve made allies in Elidir, and 
the combination of Hedvend’s assassination and 
Caeto’s crackdown has the city up in arms and ripe for 
recruiting new Hellbreakers!
This chapter lasts roughly three weeks, to the end 
of Abadius. There’s largely little time-specific pressure 
on the PCs; if they fail a mission, they can generally 
retreat and then try again, but doing so will likely 
increase their Suppression Points.
Part 1: The Chains That Bind
The day after the gala, the PCs hear a knock on the 
door of their safe house. They open it to find Quoster, 
who slips in followed by two human employees laden 
with goods. He comes bearing the grim news of the 
city’s lockdown along with an offer for the PCs (and 
any items he promised them during their first meeting), 
but also a request for their help.
“I know we don’t know each other well,” the halfling 
merchant says, “but we’ve already agreed to work 
together and we need to work even more closely now that 
the city’s locked down. I don’t want the Hellknight to find 
you—bad for business, bad for surviving. I can help you 
Chapter 6:
One Way Out

===== Page 100 =====
99
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
get out of Elidir, but it will take a little time. As a Druman, 
I should be able to demand that they let me leave the city, 
and I’ll smuggle you out with my wares.
“In the meantime, I’ll provide you a safer place to 
stay; if I found you here, it’s just a matter of time until 
Vulaunex does too. There’s also some disguises to help 
you move around the city safely. But I need your help; a 
friend of mine has been arrested. One of my rivals falsely 
accused him of helping the Hellbreakers—of making the 
deal that I actually made with you! I couldn’t warn him in 
time and the army is snatching up all sorts of people in 
a sweep. They’re bringing them all to the Gyve. He won’t 
survive long there, so please, I need you to go get him out 
before it’s too late!”
Quoster is largely being honest with the PCs. He 
fears his own nascent support for the 
Hellbreakers League will be discovered if 
the PCs are captured. What he’s not fully 
open about is that the friend is actually his 
secret paramour in the city, Siadrius Pott 
(warmhearted male halfling oddities broker 
0), one of the few other people who knows 
about Quoster’s political activities. A PC 
can discern that the stakes are very personal 
for Quoster with a DC 20 Perception check 
to Sense Motive.
If the PCs agree to help, Quoster’s 
employees unload their supplies for 
the PCs to use as disguises. They’re 
comprehensive enough that the PCs can 
effectively create new identities for themselves that 
allow them to move largely unhindered around the 
city. If the PCs refuse to help, Quoster tries to pressure 
them, using his agreement to help the Hellbreakers 
League. If that fails, he eventually offers gold (slowly 
increasing the amount until the PCs agree), but his 
anger over what he sees as a bribe affects his trading 
in the future. Reduce the Hellbreakers League’s 
Reputation Points by 1.
Treasure: Each PC is given a masquerade scarf and 
Quoster gives the group a staff of phantasms. If the 
PCs immediately agree to help, Quoster is touched and 
also gives them a ring of fair assessment (page 212).
MISSION: JAILBREAK
When the PCs arrive at the Gyve, they find a group 
of outraged citizens protesting the crackdown and 
preventing Siadrius’s captors from bringing him into 
the Moil, the labor camp that surrounds the prison. The 
army is slow to respond as it locks down the city, giving 
the PCs a chance to free Siadrius without having to enter 
the prison itself. Read or paraphrase the following.
Towering iron gates open into a courtyard, where prisoners 
arrive to be led through the dark stone walls that lead 
into the labor camp known as the Moil. In the 
center of the camp, the Gyve rises above the 
walls. Made of black stone, the prison is a blot 
on the skyline, a dreadful, ominous presence 
among the cheerfully painted wooden homes 
and businesses of Elidir. Small barred windows 
can be seen on the second floor and in the 
fourth-floor tower, about 40 feet up.
An angry crowd spilled into the 
courtyard, known as Purgatory, when 
the outer gates were opened to allow in 
Siadrius’s captors. The volatile crowd 
is currently preventing the guards from 
closing the outer gates or opening the interior 
ones. Blocked and badly outnumbered by the 
crowd, the guards are still trying to decide on a course 
of action when the PCs arrive. Siadrius is shackled 
hand and foot, and bound to a pole held by two 
guards in front of the interior gate.
Riot at the Prison Gates	
Severe 6
Use the map on page 108 for this encounter. This 
encounter takes place in Purgatory (area K1). Because 
of the mob, the entire area is difficult terrain and a 
creature can Hide or Sneak in the chaos. A PC or guard 
can attempt to control the crowd with the following 
special action:
CONTROL THE CROWD [one-action]
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
You try to direct the crowd. Attempt a DC 22 Diplomacy or 
Intimidation check.
Critical Success The crowd moves at your command. You 
do not treat the area as difficult terrain until the start of 
your next turn and you can choose to have the crowd do 
2d8 damage to each enemy in the area.
SUBSYSTEMS
This chapter makes use of several subsystems, 
which are listed here for easy reference.
Riot at the Prison Gates (page 99) and The 
Manor Job (page 101) both use the Victory Point 
system (GM Core 184).
The Talisman Job (page 103) uses the infiltration 
subsystem (GM Core 196).
Ride or Die (page 114) uses the chase subsystem 
(GM Core 192).
Hellbreakers Banner

===== Page 101 =====
100
Success The crowd parts around you momentarily. You do 
not treat the area as difficult terrain until the start of 
your next turn.
Failure The crowd ignores you.
Critical Failure The crowd only jostles you more. On your 
next action or reaction until the start of your next turn, 
you must attempt a DC 5 flat check. On a failure, the 
action is disrupted.
Creatures: Four guards are in the area and no other 
guards rush to their aid because of the mob’s presence. 
The guards, seeing no way out, fight until knocked 
unconscious or slain.
CAPTAIN OF THE GUARD
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder NPC Core 115
Initiative Perception +15
GATE GUARDS (3)
CREATURE 4
Palace guard (Pathfinder NPC Core 14)
Initiative Perception +14
Development: The mob is thrilled by the PCs’ 
resistance to the guards and, as the battle concludes, 
begins chanting slogans, such as “Isger for Isger,” “Send 
the devils back to Cheliax,” and “Hellbreakers!” If the 
players or PCs have discussed or used any slogans among 
themselves, having the crowd spontaneously chant that 
would help convey the PCs’ growing influence and 
importance to the Hellbreakers League. At this point, it’s 
up to the PCs to decide what to do—they can abandon 
the mob to its own devices, try to get it to disperse for 
the protesters’ own safety, or recruit members for their 
own chapter of the Hellbreakers League as Alceo and 
Phoebe tasked them to do when they first arrived.
Attempting to break up the mob before it gets out 
of hand requires a DC 22 skill check using the basic 
Victory Point mechanic (GM Core 184) to measure the 
PCs’ success. Determine how a PC wants to engage the 
mob and what skill makes the most sense; each PC has 
one chance to influence the crowd. Some likely choices 
include Athletics to bodily separate people from the 
whole; Diplomacy to reason with them; Intimidation 
to scare them away; or Society to explain the danger 
they face with the protest. If the PCs leave the mob to 
its own devices and flee with Siadrius, they receive 0 
Victory Points.
0 	
Victory Points: The mob continues to protest after 
the PCs leave until they are brutally put down 
by Caeto’s forces. Word of the slaughter quickly 
spreads, and the PCs lose 2 Uprising Points.
1–2 	 Victory Points: The PCs persuade a few protesters 
to take their requested action, but can’t control 
most of the mob. They gain 0 Uprising Points.
3–4 	Victory Points: Most of the mob heeds the PCs and 
follows their directions, though a few protesters 
continue to decry Caeto’s crackdown. They gain 1 
Uprising Points.
5+	 Victory Points: The PCs quickly persuade the 
protesters to do as instructed, bolstering their 
reputation. They gain 2 Uprising Points and increase 
the Hellbreakers League’s Reputation Points by 1.
Part 2: Raising Hell
Once the PCs return to the safe house, Quoster is 
elated that they saved Siadrius.
“I can’t think you all enough, I... Siadrius means more to me 
than you’ll ever know. If what you did at the gala wasn’t 
enough, this only proves I’m making the right choice by 
supporting the Hellbreakers League. Stay here, rest and 
recover, and I’ll get us all out of Elidir as quickly as possible.”
Siadrius, as a way of thanks, says even with his 
current legal troubles, he has enough friends in the 
city that he can buy (or sell) anything the PCs might 
need, letting them shop safely during this part of the 
adventure. He says he’ll contact a friend, Jenvirick 
(excitable female nephilim halfling antiques collector 
3), whom he trusts to serve as an intermediary, and 
will send her to the PCs’ safe house.
WHO ARE THE ROOKIE HELLBREAKERS?
The number of Hellbreakers who join the PCs 
isn’t specified and mostly serve as background 
characters. You can reintroduce NPCs the PCs 
met in the city to fill out the ranks, including 
any of those they entered the city with, such as: 
Sarevial, the elf apprentice they met shortly after 
entering Elidir (page 68); Padisco, the wounded 
veteran (page 75); Ozney, if they didn’t let the 
authorities take her to prison (page 76); and 
Father Kindness and the Children’s Charity (page 
72). Otton Nettlebrush, the servant from the 
manor (page 81), definitely joins. He appears in 
one of the early uprisings that Jenvirick suggests, 
but is later captured and reveals the PCs’ locations 
after being tortured in the Gyve. Feel free to flesh 
out additional Hellbreaker recruits and give them 
backgrounds that emphasize the iniquity in Isger. 
Creating connections with NPCs during the earlier 
part of the chapter will increase the impact of 
their eventual arrest and attempts to free them.

===== Page 102 =====
101
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Jenvirick arrives shortly after the PCs have had a 
chance to rest and recover from the fight at the Moil. 
The daughter of Goblinblood War veterans, 
she’s tired of watching her parents and her 
country be taken advantage of. While she’s 
always been excitable (as well as a bit of 
a conspiracy theorist), Siadrius’s request 
to work with the Hellbreakers has ignited 
her into a full-blown radical. She soon 
approaches the PCs about starting a 
local chapter of the Hellbreakers League. 
The exact timing for this request is up to 
you—it might work well immediately 
after she returns from a first shopping 
expedition for the PCs, but could be 
sooner if they don’t immediately have any 
goods they want to buy or sell.
Jenvirick serves as an important NPC in this 
section. She pushes the PCs to start a chapter 
of the Hellbreakers League in the city and offers 
them missions to advance their cause.
Jenvirick nearly thrums with excitement, shifting her 
weight from foot to foot as if she’s only barely holding 
herself back from rushing into action. “I can do more than 
just shop. I joined the protests before Hedvend—” She 
stops to spit on the ground as she mentions the now-dead 
steward. “—cracked down on the Riotmongers. I’ve heard 
about what the Hellbreakers League is doing in the south, 
and Siadrius told me how you rescued him. The time is 
now! Elidir is ready for its own chapter. That protest at 
the Moil proves it. We just need leaders! And you showed 
you can lead! Let me join, let me help! I have so many 
ideas!”
If the PCs agree, Jenvirick claps her hands. When 
they’re ready, she spills out ideas for missions the 
PCs can undertake. Her ideas make up the following 
encounters: The Manor Job (page 101), The Army 
Job (page 102), and The Talisman Job (page 103), 
which the PCs can do in whatever order they 
chose. After they complete the second of Jenvirick’s 
missions, Quoster approaches them about The Dock 
Job uprising (page 104). If the PCs feel they’re low on 
Uprising Points, they can also attempt the Propaganda 
mission (page 105). This section of the adventure lasts 
about 2–3 weeks, giving PCs time to rest, craft, or 
shop between missions. You could even have missions 
overlap to convey a sense of time passing—especially 
with perhaps one or two obstacles from the Talisman 
Job happening around other uprisings, though you 
should make sure doing it this way won’t confuse 
your players.
If the PCs rebuff her, Jenvirick is disappointed, 
but continues to press them over the following days, 
arguing that the League has been a positive 
force for other areas of Isger and that 
Elidir deserves the same. If they still refuse, 
she decides to take matters into her own 
hands, slowly bringing more and more 
revolutionaries into the safe house 
and holding meetings right under 
the PCs’ noses—such meetings lead 
to wilder and wilder ideas that the 
PCs should be able to immediately 
tell would result in mass casualties. 
If the PCs don’t quickly take a 
leadership role, they become aware 
that the unauthorized Hellbreakers 
League is trying to incite misbehavior 
and provoking Caeto to increase his efforts 
against them. From here, the PCs’ Suppression 
Points increase by 1 per day. After three days, 
Quoster approaches the PCs to share his 
concerns about the high-profile actions being 
attributed to the League and their repercussions, and 
urges the PCs to take leadership of the group.
MISSION: THE MANOR JOB
Jenvirick approaches with a familiar halfling. “This is Otton 
Nettlebrush. I heard him talking with another League 
member and, well, you should hear what he has to say!”
Otton mumbles to himself nervously and shifts his feet 
for a moment before he begins. “Right... Jenvirick says I 
should tell you that I served in Reevesrest until Hedvend 
got exactly what he deserved. After that, Vulaunex sacked 
most of the staff, just left a few guards and servants. But 
here’s the thing: that manor has a lot of valuables in it. 
Coins, of course, but also artwork, rare books, even that 
glaive that hangs in the steward’s room—the older servants 
used to say it was some sort of ancient magical weapon 
that stewards have kept since they defeated the original 
Isgeri.”
Vibrating with excitement, Jenvirick interrupts. “So that 
gave me an idea! We could go loot it. Then we use the 
money to help the city’s needy, which should bring them 
to our side!”
Caeto remains ensconced in the Chelaxian Quarter, 
also known as the Devil’s Acre—the walled area 
of the city that houses the Chelaxian elite—leaving 
Reevesrest largely empty other than a few guards and 
servants to maintain it. The PCs, who already know 
the manor’s layout, have a golden opportunity to sneak 
back in and loot the place. Jenvirick suggests some of 
Jenvirick

===== Page 103 =====
102
the treasure could help fund the nascent chapter of the 
Hellbreakers League, but the rest could be distributed 
to the needy to earn favor for the rebellion.
To succeed at this mission, the PCs need to sneak 
past the guards and quietly enter the home. This 
uprising is a skill challenge using the Victory Points 
mechanic (GM Core 184). This is a two-step challenge 
over about 8 hours that can be done day or night. 
Each PC can attempt one check per step and a PC 
who uses an appropriate non-cantrip spell can earn 
an automatic success, or a critical success if it’s the 
highest rank spell they can cast.
In the first part of the challenge, the PCs must avoid 
both human and animal guards. They can attempt 
to do so with a DC 22 check using Acrobatics to 
go over and around gates and guards, Deception 
to Impersonate a new servant or guard, Nature to 
Command an Animal, Stealth to avoid being seen, or 
Perception to Spot approaching patrols.
0–1	  Victory Points: The PCs are spotted, and fail to get 
past the guards.
2–3 	Victory Points: The PCs make it past the guards, 
but raise suspicions. They suffer a –1 circumstance 
penalty to any skill checks in the second part of this 
challenge.
4 	
Victory Points: The PCs slip into the manor grounds 
completely undetected.
If the PCs have enough VP to proceed to the second 
part of the challenge, they must break into the manor 
and bypass locks and magical traps set to secure the 
location. They can do so with a DC 22 check using 
Athletics to Force Open a door or window, or a DC 
22 Arcana, Crafting, Occultism, Religion, or Thievery 
check to bypass the magical security.
0–1 	Victory Points: The PCs fail to get into the manor 
and need to retreat.
2–3 	Victory Points: The PCs get into the manor, but 
can’t access all of its valuables.
4 	
Victory Points: The PCs strip the manor of 
everything that’s not nailed down.
If the PCs fail at either challenge, they escape 
unscathed and can try again on another day. Each 
failed attempt gains the PCs 1 Suppression Point, but 
also reduces the DCs in both parts of the challenge by 1 
as they gain familiarity with the security (this reduction 
is cumulative if the PCs make multiple attempts).
Treasure: If the PCs strip the manor of all its valuables, 
they claim a token of salt and earth (page 212) as well 
as the glaive in Hedvend’s room, an ancient Isgeri 
weapon called Lifebloom (page 214). In addition, they 
earn 2 Uprising Points as the Hellbreakers distribute 
Hedvend’s wealth to those who need it. If they couldn’t 
access all of the valuables, they get the two treasures 
and only gain 1 Uprising Point.
Reward: If the PCs successfully get into the manor 
and get any valuables, award them 10 XP.
MISSION: THE ARMY JOB
An evil grin crosses Jenvirick’s face. “I have an idea!” she 
says excitedly. “I was looking for something to eat earlier 
and I accidentally snapped at Sarevial because I wanted 
some bread. People get cranky when they’re hungry, and 
they don’t always make the best choices. What if we 
did that to the army? Who knows if Vulaunex has fully 
wrapped his greedy fists around the army’s hilt, but I bet 
we can make things uncomfortable there!”
Jenvirick suggests the PCs take advantage of the 
confusion around Caeto’s takeover to disrupt 
the Isgeri army’s operations. If they impersonate 
Chelaxian couriers, they could send supplies or even 
forces to the wrong places, creating shortages and 
opportunities for other activities. Doing so requires 
the PCs to create false orders and infiltrate Isger’s Fist, 
the army headquarters, which takes an entire day.
The PCs must first falsify documents, which they 
can attempt to do with a DC 22 Society check to 
Create a Forgery or a DC 22 Crafting check to create 
the paper, inks, and seals associated with the army’s 
written orders. This check should be made secretly. 
The PCs then must deliver the orders, which requires 
a DC 22 Deception or Performance check. If the PCs 
successfully influenced Colonel Rithert in Chapter 4 
(page 78) and xe survived the gala, reduce each DC 
by 1.
If the PCs succeed at both checks, they disrupt 
the army’s supply lines, reducing their number of 
Suppression Points by 2; if they critically succeeded 
at one of the checks, they instead reduce the number 
by 3, or by 4 if they critically succeed at both checks. 
If they fail at either check, they aren’t able to deliver 
the false orders, but can attempt to do so again. If they 
critically fail at one of the checks, they raise suspicions 
and gain 1 Suppression Point. If they critically fail at 
both checks, they gain 2 Suppression Points and can’t 
attempt this uprising again.
Reward: If the PCs successfully complete the Army 
Job, award them 10 XP.
MISSION: THE TALISMAN JOB
“They’re accusing us of killing Hedvend even though we 
didn’t, right?” Jenvirick asks in a voice that indicates she

===== Page 104 =====
103
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
knows the answer already. “It’s all a frame job to come 
after us. But I think I have my best idea yet! What if we did 
the same thing to them?”
The PCs have had a couple of interactions with the 
Azri family, who represent the very worst Isger has 
to offer: unparalleled wealth, less concern for the 
common person than the dirt on their exquisite 
custom shoes, and fewer scruples than a devil from 
the Hells. Unfortunately, their status and connections 
as one of the primary providers of weapons and 
supplies to the Isgeri army have largely made them 
untouchable as does their immense amount of private 
security. Framing the Azris as Hellbreakers would 
force Caeto to arrest them, even if only to acquit 
them. While they might be able to buy their freedom, 
the charges would be serious enough that they would 
be imprisoned, which would in turn interfere with 
the army’s weapon supply.
Jenvirick lays out an elaborate heist for the PCs, 
which involves spreading rumors about a shipment 
of talismans from Druma intended for Elidir’s army 
that have disappeared. Next, the PCs must find a way 
to connect the talismans to the Azris by posing as 
thieves who offer to sell them to the corrupt nobles. 
The PCs can then slip word to the army, claiming 
the Azris were the ones who stole the supposed 
shipment in the first place with plans to sell them 
to the Hellbreakers League. Once all those hooks 
are baited, it’s simply a matter of luring both sides 
to the same location and getting away unseen and 
untouched. This uprising uses the Infiltration system 
from GM Core 196.
CREATE A PRIZE	
OBSTACLE 6
Infiltration Points 2 (group); Overcome DC 24 Deception 
to spread word of the missing items, DC 27 Performance 
to act as merchants who have had their goods stolen, 
or DC 22 Warfare Lore or Underworld Lore to Recall 
Knowledge about army supplies and local thieves’ 
guilds
The PCs need to “create” a missing shipment of talismans 
to intrigue the Azris and anger army officers by spreading 
rumors.
BAIT THE HOOK	
OBSTACLE 6
Infiltration Points 2 (group); Overcome DC 22 Arcana, 
Crafting, Nature, Occultism, or Religion to create a 
fake sample talisman, DC 24 Deception, Diplomacy or 
Mercantile Lore to negotiate terms, or DC 27 Society to 
arrange a deal
The PCs must meet with the Azris and arrange for them to 
buy the supposedly stolen shipment.
START THE HUNT	
OBSTACLE 6
Infiltration Points 2 (group); Overcome DC 24 Deception, 
Diplomacy, or Performance to get a message to the 
proper authorities, DC 22 Legal Lore or Warfare Lore 
to Recall Knowledge about army procedures, or DC 27 
Society to create clues for army investigators to find
Once the PCs rope the Azris into the scheme, they need to 
alert the army to the supposed corruption.
Special If the PCs successfully Influenced Colonel Rithert 
during Chapter 4 and xe survived the gala, reduce the DCs 
for this obstacle by 2; if Colonel Rithert didn’t survive the 
gala, increase all DCs by 1 as xir replacement is still learning 
the job and is slow to respond to the PCs’ prompts.
GATHER THE MARKS	
OBSTACLE 6
Infiltration Points 2 (group); Overcome DC 27 Deception or 
Diplomacy to bring everyone together, DC 24 Survival 
to lay false tracks for army investigators, or DC 22 
Thievery to plant a fake talisman
The PCs must arrange for army investigators to catch the 
Azris red-handed with the supposedly stolen talismans.
LEAVE THEM HOLDING THE BAG	
OBSTACLE 6
Infiltration Points 2 (group); Overcome DC 24 Acrobatics 
or Athletics to get over walls, DC 25 Elidir Lore or DC 27 
Society to find the best escape routes in the city, or DC 
22 Stealth to Sneak away
The last thing for the PCs to do is slip away, as if they 
never existed at all, leaving the Azris with supposedly 
stolen goods and a nonsense explanation about the 
alleged deal.
The PCs’ Awareness Points total has the following 
effects (in addition to any effects from Uprising Points 
or Suppression Points).
5 Awareness Points: The Azris grow wary. Increase the 
DCs for obstacles in this uprising by 1.
10 Awareness Points: The Army blames the Hellbreakers 
for the supposed theft of the talismans. Add 1 to the 
PCs’ Suppression Points.
15 Awareness Points: The hunt for the missing talismans 
intensifies. Increase the PCs’ Suppression Points by a 
total of 2.
20 Awareness Points: The Azris become suspicious and 
abandon the plan. The Talisman Job fails.
Development: If the PCs successfully complete 
the Talisman Job, the Azris are arrested and sent 
to the Gyve (where the PCs encounter them later). 
The disruption to the army’s activities reduces the 
number of Suppression Points by 2.
Reward: If the PCs successfully complete the 
Talisman Job, award them 10 XP.

===== Page 105 =====
104
MISSION: THE DOCK JOB
LOW OR MODERATE 6
This uprising occurs after the PCs complete two of the 
previous uprisings. Quoster approaches the PCs and 
says he’s having trouble persuading the authorities 
to let him leave the city. Fortunately, Jenvirick has an 
idea: she suggests the PCs to stage a robbery to pile 
on pressure.
Quoster runs his hands through his hair, looking haggard. 
“I still think I can get you out with my goods, but the 
authorities are being stubborn devils. They’re refusing to 
let me leave, and I need some leverage.”
Jenvirick lets out a squeak: “Oh, I have an idea! What if 
you stage a robbery down at the docks and intentionally 
get spotted so there’s no chance it’s overlooked? Then 
Quoster can use that to emphasize that his goods aren’t 
safe here!”
It’s not important that the PCs actually steal 
anything, but Quoster needs them to be spotted so 
he can point to the threat of thieves as a reason he 
should be allowed to move his goods out of Elidir lest 
Caeto risk him kicking up enough of a fuss to cause an 
international squabble. Quoster suggests going at night 
when the docks are largely empty other than security 
patrols, which typically consist of a few guards. He 
urges the PCs to avoid killing anyone, since that could 
backfire and make Caeto tighten his grip.
If the PCs successfully influenced Sastoli Brunc in 
Chapter 4 (page 78) and he survived the gala, Quoster 
suggests they try to enlist his aid. A PC who goes to the 
docks to talk to him can attempt a DC 20 Diplomacy 
check to Request his help. On a success, he informs 
the PCs about what a typical guard patrol consists of, 
including the spells the watchmage has prepared and 
the presence of the hell hound. On a critical success, 
Sastoli agrees to divert some resources away from 
where the PCs plan to stage the robbery; remove 
one dock guard from the encounter, reducing it from 
moderate to low.
This encounter uses the map to the left. If the PCs 
want to scope out the scene ahead of time, they can do 
so easily. Once they’re ready to proceed, allow them to 
set up where they would like. At least one PC needs to 
visibly play the thief role for the guards to spot. Have any 
PCs who wish to be caught robbing the docks attempt 
a DC 22 Performance check or a DC 24 Acrobatics, 
Deception, Thievery, or Stealth check to make a show 
of breaking in while intentionally failing to do so, or a 
DC 27 Athletics check to knock over items and create 
a racket. A PC who succeeds gains a +2 circumstance 
bonus to their initiative roll when the guards confront 
them; on a critical success, they are quickened on the 
THE DOCK JOB
THE DOCK JOB
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 106 =====
105
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
first round of combat and can use the extra action to 
Step, Stride, Strike, or Take Cover.
Creatures: The typical guard patrol along the 
docks consists of a watchmage and two guards. Amid 
the crackdown in the city, Caeto has supplemented 
their forces with a hell hound. The guards prioritize 
capturing the PCs over killing them if possible, but the 
hell hound has no such concerns.
WATCHMAGE	
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder NPC Core 115
Initiative Perception +15
DOCK GUARDS (2)	
CREATURE 4
Elite watch officer (Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 113)
Initiative Perception +8
HELL HOUND	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder Monster Core 194
Initiative Perception +9
Development: The PCs’ fight with the guards is noisy 
enough to draw more guards. The PCs can hear people 
approaching, but easily have time to escape unseen, 
though not to complete a robbery. While the PCs 
ultimately won’t have the chance to sneak out of the 
city with Quoster (see Part 3: The Great Escape), the 
merchant’s efforts to apply pressure still benefit them 
as the authorities divert forces to the docks to stop “a 
rash of brazen thefts.” Reduce the PCs’ Suppression 
Points by 2. If the PCs kill any human guards, the 
paralictor uses it to justify further crackdowns and 
the PCs gain 1 Suppression Point for each guard killed 
(Caeto doesn’t care what happens to the hell hound).
Reward: If the PCs persuade Sastoli to reduce the 
guard patrol, award them 20 XP.
MISSION: PROPAGANDA
This uprising is an optional event for if the PCs are 
lacking Uprising Points. The city is being beaten down 
by Caeto’s brutal crackdown on rebellious elements, 
but the Hellbreakers can turn public sentiment further 
against him through this uprising. First, the PCs must 
attempt to create anti-Cheliax propaganda with a 
DC 22 Crafting or appropriate Lore check. If the PCs 
received the Abrogail I script from Ievis (page 71), 
they automatically succeed.
Next, the PCs must bring their propaganda to the 
public. They can do this quietly or loudly, each with 
their own risks and benefits. If the PCs choose to take 
the quiet approach, they can wait until night and 
sneakily distribute their materials with a DC 24 Stealth 
or Thievery check. If they choose the loud approach, 
they stage a public forum protesting Caeto’s rule and 
rousing a mob with a DC 24 Diplomacy, Intimidation, 
or Performance check.
On a success, the PCs gain 1 Uprising Point (2 if they 
went loud). On a failure, they gain no Uprising Points. 
On a critical failure, they draw attention from guards 
and are confronted (2 guards for quiet, 4 for loud).
GUARDS (2–4)	
CREATURE 4
Elite watch officer (Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 113)
Initiative Perception +8
Part 3: The Great Escape
After the PCs have attempted all of Jenvirick’s missions, 
they move on to Part 3 of this chapter. About three 
weeks after the gala, as Abadius draws to a close, the 
PCs receive word that Quoster is finally being allowed 
to leave and they should meet him at the docks along 
with everything they wish to take with them out of 
the city.
The timing is serendipitous, as the PCs’ departure 
comes minutes before the headquarters is raided by the 
Isgeri army. Unrealized by anyone, Otton Nettlebrush 
was captured some time ago. He finally broke under 
torture at the Gyve and revealed the Hellbreakers’ 
location. Jenvirick is barely able to escape, and rushes 
to bring word to the PCs.
Quoster urges his men to quickly finish the preparations, 
carefully having them arrange crates on the ship to create 
a hiding place where they can smuggle multiple people 
out of Elidir. Their work is interrupted as a guard calls out, 
“Boss, there’s someone coming!”
As everyone tenses, a solitary figure limps into the 
warehouse. It’s Jenvirick, but she’s clearly been in a fight. 
She holds one arm carefully against her chest with the 
other, cradling it to prevent the injured limb from being 
jarred. Her hair is matted with blood, and one eye is swollen 
closed. “It’s the army, they found us! They attacked us 
moments after you left,” she says, clearly in pain. “I barely 
escaped. Everyone else has been captured—they’ve all been 
taken to the Gyve!” Her voice cracks with a sob as the final 
word escapes her lips.
The PCs likely have questions for her, which Jenvirick 
struggles to answer as best she can. She doesn’t know 
how the authorities found their headquarters, but they 
came in force and addressed them as Hellbreakers, 
so they clearly knew what they were walking into. 
She tells the PCs that the other revolutionaries are 
almost certainly in the prison by now—she didn’t 
know what else to do, so she hid until she knew it 
was safe to come find the PCs. She urges the PCs to

===== Page 107 =====
106
break them out of prison; otherwise, they’ll likely be 
publicly executed, which would all but end any hope 
of rebellion in the capital. If the PCs agree, read or 
paraphrase the following.
“I don’t think you can just assault the Gyve—that would be 
suicide. Even if you got in, you’d never get out again. But 
I have an idea! One of my parents’ friends fought in the 
Wars, and he was always talking about the chaos that all 
the goblins’ bombs caused. If we had some explosives, that 
could give you an easy way in and out of the prison! And 
maybe we set up some around the city, cause chaos—away 
from people, of course. Then the army has to deal with that 
and can’t come after you.”
Jenvirick’s heard rumors that a veterans home run 
by Rencelos Azri doubles as a secret workshop where 
he has munitions made to sell to the army. If there’s 
anywhere that might have enough explosives to make 
her plan work that’s without drawing the army’s 
immediate ire, that would be it. Once the PCs get the 
supplies, they can set them up in the city to create 
distractions at the proper time. Then, after they get in 
and out of the prison, they’ll need to steal the army’s 
mounts—that will both let them escape quickly and 
prevent the army from following. The PCs might have 
a chance to rest after Prepare the Path (page 108), but 
warn them that once they enter the prison, they likely 
won’t get to rest until they escape the city.
Refusal: If the PCs refuse to help, Quoster frowns 
but agrees that he’ll still help them leave the city. 
However, that attempt is foiled when they arrive at the 
gates and find that they’ve been closed—Caeto isn’t 
allowing anyone to leave the city until he’s executed 
the captured Hellbreakers.
J. MISSION: UP IN ARMS
After the Goblinblood Wars, Rencelos Azri opened 
a veteran’s home called Soldier’s Aegis for members 
of his company. In the beginning, this was a genuine 
act of charity for those who’d aided him throughout 
the war. In time, however, he began having them 
craft magical munitions for him to sell to the highest 
bidder. Soldier’s Aegis slowly transformed from respite 
home to a magical arms workshop staffed by veterans 
known as skirmancers.
Soldier’s Aegis’s walls are wooden slats, and the 
doors are wood. It has magical lights in each room 
that provide dim light unless one of the skirmancers is 
in the room, in which case it provides bright light. The 
windows are closed with wooden shutters, but can be 
Forced Open with a successful DC 22 Athletics check. 
The windows are big enough for a Small creature 
to enter, but Medium or larger creatures need to 
Squeeze through. Use the map above for the following 
encounters.
J1. Vestibule	
Trivial 6
A painting of Rencelos Azri in military attire hangs on 
the wall opposite the door in this finely paneled wooden 
foyer. By the door, a coat rack holds several warm jackets, 
and a small bucket holds water and a rag to wipe dirt off 
muddy boots.
The door from the outer courtyard to the vestibule 
is locked. A PC can Pick the Lock with three successful 
DC 22 Thievery checks.
Hazard: The door to the courtyard is warded with 
a magical trap.
SLASHING RUNE	
HAZARD 6
MAGICAL
 TRAP
Stealth DC 25 (trained)
Description An invisible rune creates knives of force if 
someone tries to bypass the lock.
Disable DC 25 Thievery (trained) to silently erase the 
rune, or dispel magic (3rd rank; counteract DC 22) to 
counteract the rune
Slash [reaction] (arcane, fire) Trigger A creature attempts a Thievery 
check to Pick the Lock; Effect Knives of force deal 4d8+18 
slashing damage to the triggering creature (DC 25 basic 
SOLDIER’S AEGIS
SOLDIER’S AEGIS
J5J5
J6J6
J3J3
J4J4
J2J2
J1J1
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 108 =====
107
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Reflex save). On a failure, the creature also takes a –1 
penalty to Dex-based skills for 1 hour.
Reward: The PCs earn 40 XP for disabling the trap.
J2. Lounge
Several thickly padded chairs and side tables are scattered 
around this comfortable room. Magical light illuminates the 
corners where bookcases along the walls hold a number of 
titles. A dozen bottles of wine fill a rack, which also holds 
crystal goblets.
The Azris take care of the skirmancers whose 
creations make them so much money, and have 
maintained this lounge for them to relax when they’re 
not working. A small bathroom connects to the lounge 
through a door to the west. It includes a secret door to 
the vault, which can be discovered with a successful 
DC 22 Perception check.
Creatures: If the Azris weren’t taken to the Gyve at 
the end of the Talisman Job, they retreated here. They 
respond to intruders with lethal intent even if they 
recognize the PCs.
RENCELOS AZRI	
CREATURE 6
Veteran noble (Pathfinder NPC Core 15)
Initiative Perception +15
MOCCOVIZ AZRI	
CREATURE 4
Elite noble (Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 13)
Initiative Perception +13
J3. Arcane Smithy	
Trivial 6
The acrid smell of magic and alchemy permeates the air. A 
spellbook floats in a silver ritual circle with arcane runes 
of power set in the floor of this wooden room. Shelves 
hold various magical loci and other crafting elements, all 
carefully stored and labeled.
The skirmancers use this room, with its protective 
warding circle, for their magical crafting. While 
activated, the circle prevents anything from crossing. 
Creatures in the circle gain a +2 status bonus to AC 
against any attacks made from outside the area. In 
addition, a creature that attempts to enter the circle 
must make a DC 22 Will save. On a failure, the circle 
stops their movement (though they can still attempt 
any other actions that were part of an activity as long 
as they meet the requirements, such as a Strike that 
is part of a Sudden Charge). On a critical failure, 
the entire activity ends and the creature becomes 
stunned 1. A creature cannot be summoned inside the 
circle, and a creature with the magical or summoned 
trait that tries to enter the circle treats the results of its 
save as one degree worse.
Creatures: A skirmancer is working here in the 
warding circle. They remain in the circle, hoping its 
magic will protect them, and they respond to any 
intruders with deadly intent. If the Azris are in the 
lounge, the skirmancer rushes in to help them if they 
hear combat. The skirmancer surrenders if reduced to 
10 Hit Points or fewer.
SKIRMANCER MAGE	
CREATURE 5
Variant watchmage (Pathfinder NPC Core 115)
Initiative Perception +15
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 20, attack +12; 3rd haste, 
paralyze; 2nd blood vendetta, telekinetic maneuver; 1st 
force barrage, runic weapon, sure strike; Cantrips (3rd) 
ignition, live wire, prestidigitation, shield, telekinetic 
projectile
Treasure: The skirmancer’s spellbook, worth 128 
gp, includes the spells the skirmancer knows: fireball, 
gravity well, dispelling globe, and two additional 
arcane spells of the GM’s choice.
J4. Vault
The skirmancers keep items that haven’t been sold yet 
in this hidden vault.
Treasure: The vault currently holds a martyr’s shield 
(page 214), a runestone with a wounding rune, and a 
greater smoke ball.
J5. Proving Ground	
Low 6
Tears and slashes in the hay padding which covers the 
walls of this room reveal metal reinforcements, though 
even those bear nicks and dents that indicate they 
take a large amount of abuse. A pit yawns open in the 
northeast corner of the room, the stone rim chipped and 
blackened.
This is where the skirmancers test their munitions. 
The pit is 15 feet deep and the DC for Athletics checks 
to Climb out of it is 15.
Creatures: A skirmancer is working here, along 
with a construct used to test magical armaments. The 
skirmancer is absorbed in her work and doesn’t notice 
any sounds of combat from outside, but attacks if the 
PCs enter the room. She surrenders if reduced to 10 
Hit Points or fewer. The clockwork soldier attacks 
any PCs that enter the room, but doesn’t leave the 
room, fighting until destroyed.

===== Page 109 =====
108
SKIRMANCER ENGINEER	
CREATURE 6
Gadgeteer (Pathfinder NPC Core 46)
Initiative Perception +14
CLOCKWORK SOLDIER	
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder Monster Core 2 71
Initiative Perception +16
Treasure: The PCs can find a large amount of 
unexploded frozen lava in the pit. The exact amount 
isn’t specified because the PCs are expected to use 
most of it in the rest of this chapter to blow their way 
into the prison and then out of Elidir. They can keep 2 
frozen lavas and an eternal eruption for their personal 
use.
J6. Forge
A fire in the forge against the southern wall fills this room 
with heat. Crafter’s tools fill much of the area, including 
an anvil, hammer, and tongs for working with metals, as 
well as chisels and planes for shaping wood. A shelf built 
on the wall near the door holds several labeled potion 
bottles.
The skirmancers craft the physical implements they 
use in this kitchen-turned-smithy.
Treasure: The shelf holds two moderate healing 
potions intended to help anyone injured during the 
crafting process or during tests in area K5.
MISSION: PREPARE THE PATH
Having successfully obtained supplies from the 
veteran’s home, the PCs now must place the frozen 
lava in the most optimal locations to cause mass 
chaos during their final escape from the city. Doing 
so uses the following special activity. A PC can 
attempt the activity up to three times, but they gain 
2 Suppression Points the second time they try and 3 
Suppression Points the third time as their activities 
attract attention.
PLACE BOMB
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
SECRET
You spend an hour finding the best location to place an 
explosive to provide the optimum benefit during the escape 
from the Gyve. Attempt a DC 20 check with an appropriate 
Lore (such as Elidir Lore, Engineering Lore, or Warfare 
Lore) or a DC 22 Crafting, Society, or Stealth check.
THE GYVE
THE GYVE
BASEMENT
BASEMENT
SECOND FLOOR
SECOND FLOOR
THIRD FLOOR
THIRD FLOOR
TOWER
TOWER
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
K1
K1
K4
K4
K5
K5
K6
K6
K7
K7
K2
K2
K2
K2
K9
K9
K10
K10
K11
K11
K12
K12
K8
K8
K2
K2
K13
K13a
K13
K13b
K3
K3b
K3
K3a
K3
K3b
K3
K3a

===== Page 110 =====
109
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Critical Success You gain 2 Volcanic Diversion Points, 
as described in Success. 
Success You gain 1 Volcanic Diversion Point. Before any 
check during the Ride or Die uprising (see page 114), 
you can spend a Volcanic Diversion Point to describe 
how the frozen lava helps, either by clearing the 
way or distracting or damaging pursuers. Doing so 
improves the degree of success by 1 step.
Failure You fail to properly set the frozen lava.
Critical Failure As failure and you gain a Disaster Point 
that decreases the degree of success of your check 
by 1. You must use your Disaster Point on a check 
during Ride or Die or take 5d6 damage from the 
frozen lava exploding on you.
K. MISSION: BREAK THE FETTERS
Once the PCs finish their preparations, they can begin 
their assault on the Gyve at any time. The prison uses 
the map on page 108 and is made of well-maintained 
masonry (Hardness 14, HP 56 [BT 28], Climb DC 22), 
with 10-foot-high ceilings. Its doors and portcullises 
are wood (Hardness 10, HP 40 [BT 20]) and are locked 
unless otherwise noted. They require two successes 
on a DC 22 Thievery check to Pick the Lock or can 
be Forced Open with a DC 27 Athletics check. The 
windows are barred with iron, but have been poorly 
maintained while the government has used its limited 
resources on other priorities—they have Hardness 
10, HP 40 (BT 20), and can be Forced Open with a 
successful DC 24 Athletics check. Torches on the first 
floor provide bright light throughout the area. The rest 
of the prison is in darkness unless indicated otherwise.
If the PCs wish to know more about the prison, 
they can attempt a DC 20 Society check to Recall 
Knowledge or a DC 22 Diplomacy check to Gather 
Information. On a success, they learn that prisoners 
are kept on the upper floors, while a torture chamber 
is in the basement. On a critical success, they learn 
specifics about the prison: Give them a map of the first, 
second, and third floor, though don’t let them know 
where the secret entrance to area K5 is.
Jenvirick strongly recommends the PCs blow a 
hole in the surrounding walls of the prison to enter, 
which they can do with supplies they’ve acquired 
from Soldier’s Aegis. Allow them to pick a spot on the 
outer walls where they want to set a bomb. When it 
explodes, it blows a 5-foot-wide gap the PCs can use 
to enter directly into the Moil (area K2), and from 
there the Gyve. If they have Volcanic Diversion Points, 
they can spend 1 to create an additional 5-foot hole in 
the Gyve’s outer wall, or in the prison itself.
Some PCs might want to try a stealthier approach. 
One option—which Jenvirick strongly recommends 
against—is to get themselves arrested. They can do 
this very easily via street patrol (use the Papers, Please 
encounter on page 65). This would bring them into 
the prison via Purgatory and then the main entrance 
to the Descent, but the guards would take any 
armor, weapons, and magic items unless they were 
successfully concealed with Stealth or magic. They 
could also attempt to get a man on the inside through 
a hefty bribe of 300+ gp or an extremely difficult 
Diplomacy check (DC 30), but this might take time 
they can’t afford.
If a PC wants to impersonate a guard, warn them 
through a NPC that the guards have a daily code 
phrase that they use to identify themselves. The phrase 
on the day the PCs break in is “It’s colder than a rime 
dragon’s breath,” and the PCs must find a guard and 
get the code out of them with a DC 27 Diplomacy 
check or a DC 29 Intimidation check.
K1. Purgatory	
Trivial 6
The grim gates of the prison await those doomed.
The entranceway to the prison grounds acts as an 
airlock—the interior and exterior gates are never 
opened at the same time. By Caeto’s orders, the 
prison is under lockdown until the Hellbreakers 
have been executed. Three guards are stationed here, 
with keys for both gates, but they’ll only open them 
for guards with the pass phrase. The gates to the 
north and south of this area are iron, with Hardness 
18, and 72 HP (Broken Threshold 36), and the DC 
to Force them Open is 27.
Creatures: The guards only open the gates if they 
hear the proper pass phrase. Otherwise, if the PCs 
enter this area, they attack. They fight until reduced 
to 10 HP, at which point they attempt to surrender 
or flee. If the guards hear a disturbance in the Moil 
(such as an explosive entrance by the PCs), they rush 
to investigate, likely encountering the PCs in area K2.
CONTENT WARNING
The Gyve is intentionally a horrible place, a 
prison designed to cause suffering and includes 
mention of torture. Before you begin, understand 
that player consent (including that of the Game 
Master) is vital to a safe and fun play experience 
for everyone. You should talk with your players 
before beginning the adventure and modify 
descriptions of the narrative as appropriate.

===== Page 111 =====
110
JAILERS (2)	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder NPC Core 112
Initiative Perception +9
WATCH OFFICER	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder NPC Core 113
Initiative Perception +8
Treasure: In addition to their listed gear, the gate 
guards carry keys to the Purgatory gates and the 
exterior doors of the prison.
K2. Moil
Makeshift buildings and canvas canopies lean against 
the walls of this courtyard. Large piles of wood and 
other raw materials sit next to them, scattered about the 
yard for use by the prisoners of the Gyve. Old, rusted 
manacles lie broken on the ground, remnants of the 
courtyard’s past.
The former slave auction attached to the prison was 
transformed into a labor camp after the Emancipation 
Edict in 4722 ar. Debtors and minor criminals are 
sentenced to work here, earning coppers to pay off 
their obligations by crafting supplies used by the army. 
This area is open to the sky and might have lighting 
based on the time of day the PCs attack. The prisoners 
are locked inside, so the area is empty (either because 
it’s night or because of Caeto’s lockdown orders) with 
nothing of note or value.
K3. Guard Tower	
Low 6
This stone tower rises 10 feet above the prison walls. Two 
bull’s-eye lanterns are mounted on the walls, and a ballista 
points in toward the prison grounds.
Twin towers to the east and west of the Moil house 
guards who watch for escapees. A ladder on the first 
floor (K3a) goes up to a trapdoor. If the guards see 
someone enter the first floor of the tower, they lock 
the trapdoor. The range of fire from the top of the 
tower (K3b) effectively includes the tower’s entire 
half of the court yard, but prevents the guards 
from targeting enemies on the far side of the prison 
grounds.
Creatures: Three guards are stationed in this area, 
day or night, and don’t leave the tower under any 
circumstances. If they see PCs in the Moil, they shoot 
at them from this location, with the artillerists using 
their actions to operate the ballista (Guns & Gears 
74) and the sniper using his own weapons. If it’s night, 
the sniper turns the lanterns to keep the PCs in light. 
If the PCs enter the tower, the guards switch to melee 
combat. They fight until reduced to 10 HP, at which 
point they attempt to surrender or flee.
ARTILLERISTS (2)	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder NPC Core 44
Initiative Perception +10
WEAK SNIPER	
CREATURE 4
Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 90
Initiative Perception +13
K4. Descent
Manacles hang from rusty chains attached to the dark 
stone walls of this winding corridor. Arrow slits line all of 
the inner wall.
Gyve Guard

===== Page 112 =====
111
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Named because it’s the path into the hell that is 
the Gyve, this winding passage leads around the 
guardhouse, giving jailers multiple opportunities to 
fire arrows at anyone trying to escape through the 
main entrance (or enter without permission, though 
the idea someone would attempt that would baffle 
almost everyone in the Gyve). Prisoners are forced 
to change into prison robes made of a thin, scratchy 
burlap, which hang from hooks to the west of the 
main entrance. Any possessions taken from arriving 
prisoners are claimed by the guards or destroyed.
K5. Guardhouse	
Low 6
This well-lit room holds a small table and chairs, offering 
relief from the cold, stark prison environment. Arrow 
slits on the walls allow easy view of the winding corridor 
outside.
The guards relax here and watch for anyone in the 
Descent when they’re not patrolling. The door to 
the room is hidden as an added precaution against 
prisoners, though being opened multiple times a day 
has made its location more obvious; it can be found 
with a successful DC 22 Perception check.
Creatures: Four guards are stationed in this room 
at all times. If they are on alert, they open fire through 
the arrow slits in this room at anyone in area K4. They 
don’t open the secret door unless someone gives the 
correct code phrase. If they hear anyone try to open 
the secret door without permission, they move to the 
far side of the room so they can fire arrows at anyone 
who enters until they enter melee. Once a guard is 
reduced to 10 Hit Points, they surrender; if three 
guards are killed or surrender, the fourth surrenders 
when they’re reduced to 20 Hit Points as long as the 
PCs haven’t attacked another guard who attempted 
to surrender.
ELITE ARCHER SENTRIES (3)	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 111
Initiative Perception +13
MAGE FOR HIRE	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder NPC Core 82
Initiative Perception +7
Treasure: This room contains weapons for the 
guards to use while on duty—PCs can find any 
common weapon they desire. The PCs can also find 
a number of contraband and confiscated goods worth 
a total of 50 gp. The guards here have keys that can 
open any door in the prison.
K6. Kitchen
A heavy iron cauldron sits in the large fireplace of this 
kitchen, filling the room with a rich, savory scent. A wooden 
table with a heavily scarred work surface fills much of the 
room, and various cooking implements hang on the wall.
No one is working in the kitchen at the time of the 
PCs’ attack, giving them an opportunity to rest here 
briefly to Treat Wounds or Refocus.
Treasure: The cauldron contains four doses of 
mender’s soup (Treasure Vault 49) being prepared for 
inmates scheduled to work on the most dangerous 
tasks the next day. The PCs can eat it immediately, or 
if they have containers, take it with them. There is also 
a greater ration tonic on the table.
K7. Storeroom
Closed chests line the walls of this room beneath shelves 
laden with neatly labeled bottles.
This room is used to temporarily store goods created 
in the Moil that are too valuable to leave in the work 
areas. Only the warden has the keys to this room, and 
she doesn’t unlock it except when someone is bringing 
in items. The room has an average lock, requiring 
four successful DC 25 Thievery checks. The torches in 
this room are only lit when it’s in use; it’s in darkness 
except for any light provided by the PCs.
Treasure: PCs can find a number of valuable supplies 
here, crafted in the Moil but not yet delivered to the 
army. The bottles hold 3 lesser elixirs of life, 3 lesser 
bottled catharsis, and 2 surging serums. In the chests 
are clawed bracers and a runestone with a ready rune.
K8. Holding Cell A
Dirty straw covers the floor of this room, piled in places 
into crude sleeping pallets with stained, unpleasant linens 
as the only blankets.
Prisoners sentenced to labor in the Moil sleep in this 
shared cell when they aren’t working. This room has 
no torches; if the PCs arrive during the day, the light 
coming in through the barred windows leaves the 
entire area in dim light, otherwise it’s dark.
A dozen people of various ages and ancestries are 
incarcerated here at the time of the PCs’ arrest. If the 
PCs free them, decrease their number of Suppression 
Points by 1 as army resources are diverted to 
recapturing them. The PCs can also attempt to recruit 
them with a DC 22 Diplomacy check. On a success,

===== Page 113 =====
112
many of the prisoners agree to join, and the PCs gain 
1 Uprising Point; on a critical success, they all join 
enthusiastically, and the PCs gain 2 Uprising Points. 
If the PCs allowed Ozney to be arrested in Chapter 
4 (page 76), they can find her here. However, she 
recognizes the PCs and loudly proclaims they let her 
be thrown into the Gyve without any remorse, giving 
the PCs a –1 circumstance penalty to any Diplomacy 
checks here.
K9. Holding Cell B	
Low 6
The odor of stale sweat permeates the mass cell, a foul 
funk that only compounds the misery of being locked away 
here. The few mounds of straw and linens that make up 
beds only seem to emphasize how awful this place is.
Prisoners who break rules or get on a guard’s bad side 
are moved into holding cell B. It has the same light 
conditions as the other cell.
Hazard: The captives in this cell take the opportunity 
to try to escape when the PCs open the door, crushing 
anyone in their path.
PRISON BREAK	
HAZARD 7
COMPLEX
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth +21
Description A prison mob makes a break for freedom, 
trampling anything in its path.
Disable DC 27 Athletics to stop the prisoners in their 
tracks, DC 30 Diplomacy to reason with the mob, or DC 
27 Intimidation to cow them into calming down
AC 22; Fort +18, Ref +12, Will +20
HP 62 (BT 31); Weaknesses area damage 6, splash damage 6
Rush to Freedom [reaction] Trigger The door to holding cell B 
opens; Effect The hazard grabs at the weapons of any 
creatures within 20 feet of the door, attempting to 
Disarm them with a +19 modifier, and then rolls initiative.
Routine (1 action) Prisoners trample toward the exit, 
dealing 2d10+9 bludgeoning damage to each living 
creature in area K9 and the hallway north of it (DC 25 
basic Reflex save). On a critical failure, the creature’s 
grasp on anything it’s carrying is weakened as if the 
hazard succeeded on a Disarm attempt. If its grasp was 
already weakened, they drop the item.
Special If the PCs have not defeated the hazard after 4 
rounds, it automatically ends as all the prisoners escape.
Development: If the PCs Disable the hazard without 
reducing it to 0 HP before it automatically ends, they 
can attempt a DC 22 Diplomacy check to get the 
remaining prisoners to join them. On a success, the PCs 
gain 1 Uprising Point, or 2 points on a critical success.
K10. Tool Bin
A slightly indented path from constant travel stretches 
between the north and south doors of this room. Tools 
hang from hooks on the walls.
Tools for working in the Moil are kept here, collected 
under guard each morning and returned each night.
Treasure: In addition to almost any type of long 
or short tool here, PCs can find a levered crowbar 
and enough equipment to Craft two lesser silverscrap 
bombs (page 209).
K11. Cell Block	
Low 6
A small wooden panel at head height sits in each of the 
solid wooden doors that line this hallway of dark stone. 
Occasional moans, sobs and other noises—even unhinged 
laughter—drift out from inside the cells. The stench of 
misery fills this area along with the miasma of unwashed 
bodies and excreta.
This outer hallway of the cell block is unlit and 
in darkness. A few candles burn low in the inner 
“courtyard,” leaving that area in dim light, a very 
small privilege for the better-behaved inmates that 
are kept in those cells. Two slightly larger cells in the 
western wall have one small window each—they’re 
typically given to prisoners who inform on their fellow 
inmates to the guards. The panel in each cell door can 
be opened to allow guards (or PCs) to look in.
Creatures: If the PCs successfully completed the 
Talisman Job, the Azris have been imprisoned here. 
As they’ve mostly been arrest for the optics, their cell 
doors are kept unlocked and they’re free to roam the 
floor as a special privilege. When the PCs enter, the 
Azris recognize them from previous encounters and 
attack in a rage! The pair focus on a single target at 
a time and protect each other’s backs. If the Azris 
weren’t arrested, the PCs can free their companions 
without issue.
WHO’S THERE?
The two Hellbreakers being held in area K13 aren’t 
named. If the PCs have formed a connection with 
any of the recruits, they might work well here, but 
be careful to consider whether that might be too 
upsetting.

===== Page 114 =====
113
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
RENCELOS AZRI	
CREATURE 6
Veteran noble (Pathfinder NPC Core 15)
Initiative Perception +15
MOCCOVIZ AZRI
CREATURE 4
Elite noble (Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 13)
Initiative Perception +13
Development: 
Almost 
all 
of 
the 
captured Hellbreakers—other than two 
who are being interrogated in area K13—
are in the small, unlit cells in this area. 
They know the missing Hellbreakers were 
brought into the prison, but don’t know 
what happened to them since then. 
Among the prisoners here is 
Otton, who is in awful shape 
after being tortured for 
information before being 
dumped back here. He 
tearfully apologizes and 
explains that he was 
captured and tried to stay quiet, but eventually told 
his torturer where the Hellbreakers were meeting. 
If the PCs show kindness toward Otton, the 
Hellbreakers League’s Reputation Points increase 
by 1.
K12. Warden’s Tower	
Moderate 6
This hexagonal chamber is finely appointed, with a rug 
covering the dark stone floor and simple ink drawings 
hanging on the wall between the barred windows. A large 
wooden desk stands in the middle of the room, covered 
in papers. One large, throne-like chair stands behind the 
desk and three smaller ones in front of it, two of them with 
leather straps on the arms and legs.
The warden rules the prison as a personal kingdom 
from this office. The smaller chairs are for her 
subordinates or, occasionally, prisoners who are 
restrained and brought here for interviews. The area 
is lit with everlight crystals, so it’s always bright light 
here.
Creatures: Warden Irkazer (relentless female 
human warden 8) runs the prison from this tower. 
She works day and night and can be found here at 
any time. She attacks any PCs who enter, fighting to 
the death.
WARDEN IRKAZER	
CREATURE 8
Gendarme (Pathfinder NPC Core 117)
Initiative Perception +19
Development: If PCs search the room after defeating 
the warden, they can find records on her desk about 
the Hellbreakers’ imprisonment. Among the contents 
are notes that indicate the authorities learned about 
the Hellbreakers hideout after they captured Otton 
and tortured him over several days. They also 
learn that almost all of the Hellbreakers are 
imprisoned in the cell block, except for two 
who remain in the basement, where the 
prison torturer Rovimi Scaphe (sadistic 
female human torturer 6) continues to 
try and extract information from them 
about the PCs’ potential whereabouts. The 
warden has keys to all areas in the prison, and 
a paper on her desk includes the daily 
pass phrase.
Treasure: The warden’s room 
holds a chest containing five 
silver ingots.
K13. Oubliette
Low 6
A damp chill pervades this round, subterranean chamber. 
Water drips from the black stone, a constant trickle that 
seems somehow amplified into strange echoes, and almost 
instantly begins to feel monotonous. Rusty shackles hang 
from the ceiling and walls. In the main chamber, an iron 
smell of blood underlies the grave-like scent of the earth. 
A torture rack stands in the center of the room beneath a 
pulley system hanging from the ceiling, clearly visible in 
the light from flaming braziers. Cruel pokers, blades, and 
other implements of torture hang on the back wall.
Gyve jailers extract confessions, true or not, from 
prisoners in this torture chamber that was designed 
to prey on all the senses of its victims. Victims hang 
from manacles in the antechamber (K13a), where 
they’re forced to listen to others’ screams, while others 
wait in the main area (K13) and are forced to see what 
awaits them. Two Hellbreaker captives are here, both 
hanging from chains in the main chamber while their 
torturer prepares for another interrogation session.
The area is kept well-lit both so prisoners can 
see what awaits them and also as a contrast to the 
darkened cells above. The strange echoing properties 
enhance noises here—any effect that does sonic 
damage does an additional 1 point of sonic splash.
Creatures: In addition to the shackled Hellbreakers, 
the prison’s head interrogator is here with an assistant, 
planning for another session with her victims. If she 
hears PCs approaching in the antechamber, she moves 
to the northwest side, forcing them to enter the 
main chamber, where she enters melee. She fights to 
 Warden Irkazer

===== Page 115 =====
114
the death, though her assistant is willing to surrender 
once reduced to 10 Hit Points.
ROVIMI SCAPHE	
CREATURE 6
Interrogator (Pathfinder NPC Core 158)
Initiative Perception +13
TORTURER	
CREATURE 4
Bodyguard (Pathfinder NPC Core 82)
Initiative Perception +8
Development: Rovimi Scaphe has keys, which the 
PCs can use to unlock the shackles in this area as well 
as any doors in the cell block. The freed Hellbreakers 
can tell the PCs that they were held in the cell block 
before being brought to the oubliette, but don’t know 
if all the other captives are there.
MISSION: RIDE OR DIE
Once the PCs have rescued all of their fellow 
Hellbreakers from the Gyve, they must make their 
way out of the chaotic prison, avoiding guards and 
prisoners to reach the army stables through a winter 
storm that has gathered over the city. Once they make 
it to the stables, they can steal mounts both to speed 
their passage out of the city and prevent pursuit.
Chase: This encounter uses the chase subsystem 
(GM Core 192) as the PCs try to avoid falling into 
Caeto’s clutches in their rush toward freedom. Each 
round of this chase takes 15 minutes. Because the PCs 
are fleeing and trying to avoid pursuit, they act first. 
On their turn, the pursuers gain 1d4 Chase Points. In 
addition, the pursuers get a bonus to the roll equal 
to the PCs’ Suppression Point threshold (up to 4) and 
a penalty equal to the PCs’ Uprising Point threshold 
(up to 4), though these might cancel each other out. If 
the PCs were successful Placing Bombs earlier, remind 
them they can use those to help during their escape.
If the pursuers catch the PCs, a patrol cuts off their 
path and they must fight their way past it before they 
can resume their pursuit. When this happens, the PCs 
are presumed to be mounted unless they indicate 
otherwise (likely because they have a Speed greater 
than 30, or they’re too large to ride a horse). If they 
dismount, assume some of the other Hellbreakers catch 
their horses and they can remount freely after the fight.
Creatures: A number of army units rush to stop the 
PCs’ escape. Because they are not well organized, these 
are low-threat encounters. Because they can happen 
multiple times, you can mix and match who catches 
the escapees, drawing from the creatures below so 
the encounters feel different each time. You can build 
an encounter using the XP budget (GM Core 75) or 
use one of the following combinations: One adiutor 
and two elite infantry soldiers, one unsanctioned 
sheriff and two elite infantry soldiers, two equestrian 
constables and a conscript squad, two elite infantry 
soldiers and two watch officers.
ADIUTOR	
CREATURE 5
Page 222
Initiative Perception +11
UNSANCTIONED SHERIFF	
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder NPC Core 78
Initiative Perception +13
EQUESTRIAN CONSTABLE	
CREATURE 4
Pathfinder NPC Core 113
Initiative Perception +11
ELITE INFANTRY SOLDIER	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 88
Initiative Perception +10
CONSCRIPT SQUAD	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder NPC Core 89
Initiative Perception +8
WATCH OFFICER	
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder NPC Core 113
Initiative Perception +8
If a PC wants to spend their round Treating Wounds, 
Refocusing or another such activity, they can do so 
THE DRUMA ROAD GATE
THE DRUMA ROAD GATE
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 116 =====
115
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
instead of making a check to overcome an obstacle. Even 
though such activities usually only take 10 minutes, 
because the PCs are on the move even as they work, 
it takes a full 15-minute round. Allow PCs to Refocus 
even if they normally would need to be still or undertake 
some other specific action as part of the activity.
Chase Obstacles: The characters must overcome 
these six obstacles in the following order to successfully 
finish the chase.
PRISON RIOT	
OBSTACLE 6
Chase Points 4; Overcome DC 27 Athletics to muscle your 
way through, DC 24 Intimidation to persuade a group of 
guards or prisoners to look for an easier target, or DC 22 
Stealth to avoid being spotted
Bloody, violent clashes break out throughout the Gyve as 
prisoners try to escape and guards try to stop them.
WEATHER THE STORM	
OBSTACLE 6
Chase Points 2; Overcome DC 27 Diplomacy to persuade 
someone to give you directions, DC 27 Perception to 
notice significant landmarks, DC 24 Society to remember 
the city layout, or DC 22 Survival to find your way
The intensity of the winter storm picks up, and the blast of 
driving snow makes it hard to tell left from right.
CALL THE CAVALRY	
OBSTACLE 6
Chase Points 4; Overcome DC 27 Crafting to tack up the 
horses, DC 22 Nature to handle the animals, or DC 24 
Thievery to unlock the stables and supplies
At the army stables, horses need to be saddled and 
prepared for the elements.
FIRE AND ICE
OBSTACLE 6
Chase Points 4; Overcome DC 24 Acrobatics to maintain 
your balance, DC 27 Intimidation to startle people into 
getting out of the way, or DC 22 Nature to Ride
The chaos in the city spooks the horses and fills the streets 
with shocked residents gawking at the goings-on.
SPIES IN THE SKIES	
OBSTACLE 6
Chase Points 3; Overcome DC 22 Religion to ward off 
the fiends, DC 27 Stealth to stay out of sight, or DC 24 
Survival to mask your passage 
Imps search for the Hellbreakers from above.
ROADS TO PERDITION	
OBSTACLE 7
Chase Points 4; Overcome DC 23 Arcana, Occultism, or 
Religion to counter the magic; DC 25 Survival to find a 
new path
The remaining watchmages unleash a powerful magic to 
twist the roads beneath the Hellbreakers, leading them 
back toward the prison, and capture.
MISSION: THE DRUMA ROAD GATE	
SEVERE 6
The massive wooden doors that form the Druma Road Gate 
rise above the city walls, a point of defensive construction 
meant to keep the city safe from any external threat.
Unfortunately for the PCs, one more obstacle stands 
between them and freedom: Caeto and most of the 
army are busy dealing with the chaos caused by the 
PCs’ actions (and perhaps literally putting out fires), 
but the Hellknights also responded to word of the 
prison break by sending units to secure the exits from 
the city. Use the map on page 114 for this encounter. 
The PCs notice the enemy as they approach the gate, 
and can begin this encounter mounted or on foot.
Creatures: Caeto sent a brigade of his Hellknights 
to assist the guards already at the gate. They consider 
the Hellbreakers traitors and murderers, and fight until 
slain or knocked unconscious to prevent their escape. 
While the PCs must deal with the primary threat here, 
you can describe smaller battles between other guards 
and the escaping Hellbreakers.
WEAK HELLKNIGHT CAVALRY BRIGADE	 CREATURE 7
Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 93
Initiative Perception +14
LINE INFANTRY	
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder NPC Core 91
Initiative Perception +13
STANDARD BEARER	
CREATURE 4
Pathfinder NPC Core 89
Initiative Perception +12
Development: Once the PCs successfully defeat the 
gate guards, they can escape into the storm and leave 
Elidir behind. They return to Saringallow where Alceo 
and Phoebe are waiting to greet them along with the 
new Hellbreakers they’ve brought along.
The new Hellbreakers are welcomed to Saringallow 
and soon given dominion over Highfort, an abandoned 
hobgoblin fortress close to the city. The PCs have 
plenty of time to rest and catch up with their peers, 
who are delighted to see them back. Rhokrag, Maeve, 
and Xerra are particularly happy to see the PCs and 
welcome them with great enthusiasm.
However, not all is well. Caeto still maintains an 
iron grip on Elidir, and therefore the powers that be in 
Isger, and a new threat grows in the West that Caeto 
is all too happy to ignore. Ezio Gaeta may have been 
defeated, but his master’s plans are still in motion, and 
soon to come to fruition.

===== Page 117 =====
116
Once upon a forgotten time, a king now nameless 
inherited the crown from his deceased younger 
brother, Grand Prince Cyricas, who had perished as a 
result of his own hubris in lands far away from home. 
The King-Now-Nameless demanded a tribute worthy 
his arrogance: the subjugation of the lands between 
the mountains. For centuries, the king’s ancestors had 
coveted these lands and bit and clawed at them to no 
avail. The Twelve Tribes of the Seasons, which had 
protected the region as one since before the sun was 
swallowed, were an impassable wood of birch, maple, 
and oak.
But even a great wood is nothing compared to the 
forest of swords and armor the King-Now-Nameless 
sent to do his bidding. Many of his warriors fell, some to 
spears and swords and others to schemes and deceit. An 
entire generation forgot what it meant to live in peace, 
knowing only fear, fighting, and fleeing. Capturing the 
land was not enough to satiate the King-Now-Nameless; 
he demanded the tribes be slaughtered, for he hungered 
for more than the title of conqueror.
Hunted, starving, and hiding, one desperate tribe 
painted their skin with the ashes of their dead. 
Through the ways of the Speakers of the Pale, they 
called upon their predecessors, the spirits of the land, 
and the patron deities of the Twelve Tribes. In the bleak 
silence of winter, one voice answered. Feast upon the 
harvest your enemies have wrought, the voice soothed. 
Become the herald of my winter and survive in spite of 
death—forever.
Eventually, the tribe was caught. Those who survived 
scattered to the winds like leaves in fall, but those who 
didn’t rose as wights. Before long, an immortal army 
stood ready to liberate the land and destroy those who 
Chapter 7:
Wight Queen’s Thaw

===== Page 118 =====
117
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
had slaughtered them. In fear, Taldor deposed their 
nameless, bloodthirsty grand prince, but it was too 
late—in a little over a decade, the undead drove the 
invaders out and made plans to march south.
Unwilling to let their legacy become that of 
bringing undeath to others, what remained of the 
Twelve Tribes allied with the Taldane army for one 
last war. They were so few in number that by the time 
the last wight was destroyed, so too was the culture 
of the Twelve Tribes of the Seasons. In tribute to the 
lost, Taldor commemorated the tribes as the Isgeri, a 
name some say means “those who were sacrificed,” 
or perhaps “those who sacrificed themselves.” The 
definitive meaning is unfortunately lost to time.
For some Isgeri descendants, such as the Alonnors 
and their fellow cultists, the ending of this story did 
not matter—if they considered the tale to have ended 
at all. They held the ancient pledge to their savior as 
sacred, but Isger was not freed from its conqueror. It 
fell to Taldor’s rule, after all, and then to Cheliax’s. 
Isger is, therefore, yet destined to become the realm of 
the Pallid Princess.
Illcayna Alonnor has believed since youth that she has 
a pivotal role to play in this grand destiny. Her feverish 
visions and transformation into a Child of Urgathoa 
only strengthened that sense of self-importance. For the 
past century, she has secretly sowed discord throughout 
the nation, instigating the Goblinblood Wars through 
Ezio Gaeta and cursing a merchant to afflict Gillamoor 
with a deadly curse. Her plots would have required 
another century to reach proper culmination, but the 
return of Tar-Baphon and the descent of warshards 
during the Godsrain accelerated her plans.
While most in Isger regard Illcayna as an exaggerated 
urban legend, the Wight Mother of Isger and her cult 
know they are close to reaching their goals and finally 
claiming the land for their goddess. With the murder 
of Hedvend VI distracting the political movers in 
Elidir, she is on the cusp of victory. Should she manage 
to curse the entire nation and deliver the land to 
Urgathoa, her goddess shall gain a place on Golarion 
where she is singularly revered, not reviled.
Warnings on the Horizon
The Hellbreakers have been busy since their explosive 
exit out of Elidir. During the party’s downtime, they 
have settled into a new headquarters at Highfort, 
an abandoned hobgoblin fortress once used during 
the Goblinblood Wars. As it is only a few days’ trek 
from Saringallow, Highfort’s location enables the 
two Hellbreakers branches to cooperate even as they 
remain isolated from one another. This foresight 
becomes very important in Chapter 8.
As Abadius comes to an end, reports of undead 
activity surface in southern Isger. At first, the 
troubles sound typical, but then the attacks increase 
exponentially. Settlements are overrun, and their 
residents flee for safety. The PCs can get a glimpse of 
the developing threat through the following methods, 
if they are available:
•	 Grizzo the goblin forager delivers a letter from 
the gnome official Ioan Marblemug. While Umok 
doesn’t require assistance yet, Captain Ioan 
finds it prudent to alert the PCs that undead 
are becoming an issue. If Fesimwyth “Fessy” 
Finwinkle, the Abadaran cleric from the gala, is 
alive and friendly, she co-signs the letter.
•	 One of the founders of Stumpfield, Erk Oilfingers 
the goblin painter, passes by Saringallow while 
leading refugees north. Erk is angry that their 
requests for aid to the official Isgeri army were 
ignored.
•	 If Lezinia, the human singer from the gala, is 
alive, she crosses paths with the party as a guest 
performer at the Fiend’s Finale. Lezinia urges the 
PCs to leave Isger, for she has heard that Caeto 
Vulaunex has ordered his forces to ignore the 
undead problem in favor of catching Hellbreakers.
Dampened Celebrations
With the Elidir Hellbreakers settled in at Highfort, 
Saringallow’s Hellbreakers host a celebratory dinner 
on the 1st of Calistril at Rhokrag’s house. At the 
gathering, the PCs see familiar faces ranging from 
Rhokrag to Maire to Xerra; even Gram (see the 
Saringallow gazetteer on page 200) makes a rare 
appearance. Phoebe and Alceo graciously host the 
celebrations, while Jenvirick represents the Elidir 
Hellbreakers with Sarevial and Otton.
THE CHITTERWOOD OFFENSIVE
A few days after he declared martial law in Elidir, 
Caeto Vulaunex directed his Hellknights to seize 
Logas. This unfortunately placed his comrades 
in the line of fire when undead rose in southern 
Isger. The Hellknights in Logas were ultimately 
routed, and the survivors who stumbled into 
the Chitterwood were captured by goblins who 
acquired their gear and modified it for their own 
purposes. In Calistril, these goblins with Hellknight 
gear successfully repel an undead invasion on the 
Chitterwood, then liberate Logas in what will come 
to be known as the Chitterwood Offensive.

===== Page 119 =====
118
Despite the dinner’s celebratory intent, a sense of dread 
lingers over the guests. Maire ultimately broaches the 
subject and asks if people have heard about the undead. 
The PCs can share what they know, and Jenvirick sadly 
mentions how she heard that Logas fell to an undead 
incursion some days ago. Phoebe, however, shares a letter.
“This is a copy of the reply Vulaunex sent to Logas after 
the city requested aid. Begins much as expected. ‘We are 
aware of the situation developing…’ and ‘I understand your 
concern…’ Bureaucratic speak. I’ll skip to the good part.
“‘Isger has greater problems than a few undead. The 
Hellbreakers are a pest that must be nipped in the bud 
before their dissidence spreads like a plague, though their 
self-righteous act may still be of some use. Your concerns 
are noted.’”
Alceo sighs. “The Hellbreakers have worked hard in 
the past months to earn the people’s trust and show that 
we’re an organization that takes action. With officials 
doing nothing about the crisis, people are frightened 
and desperate for help. We need to do all we can to 
help civilians find refuge against this undead entity and 
empower them to fight for themselves… and if the so-called 
leaders of Isger won’t protect its people from the undead, 
we’ll deal with it ourselves.”
PCs can attempt a Perception check to Sense Motive 
or a Society or Warfare Lore check to Recall Knowledge 
at DC 23 to suss out Caeto’s intent. On a success, they 
discern that the Hellknight hopes the Hellbreakers will 
play heroes. If they perish, it saves Caeto the trouble 
of hunting them, but if they live, they might still be 
weakened, making them easier to catch and dissolve.
The Hellbreakers have earned a reputation as an 
organization that fights for the people, and with no aid 
coming from government officials, civilians are itching 
to act and looking for guidance. The Hellbreakers 
just need to rally those ready to fight. Helping 
people secure their settlements or relocate to safety 
would make recruitment even easier. In fact, if the 
Hellbreakers solve the undead crisis once and for all, 
that in itself would cement their standing in the heart 
of the populace. With past successes like Hellknight 
Hill and Elidir under the Hellbreakers’ belt, Alceo is 
confident that tackling the undead head-on is within 
the organization’s capabilities. It’s time to prove to 
Caeto how much he has underestimated them.
NEW ASSIGNMENTS, OLD PLACES
The Riotmongers, Rhokrag, and Jenvirick quickly 
divide tasks up for the Hellbreakers. They charge the 
PCs with aiding and recruiting from the familiar area 
south of Saringallow and north of the Chitterwood. 
This also puts the party in charge of negotiating with 
Thorngrip—an 
exceptionally 
important 
task, 
as 
Thorngrip’s elders represent the Chitterwood much like 
how the Hellbreakers wish to represent the Isgeri outside 
the woods. Any promises the PCs make may become 
political obligations once the Hellbreakers free Isger.
As for solving the undead crisis, Alceo mentions he 
heard a rumor when he first came to the nation that a 
curse was the source of the undead. Phoebe chimes in 
and explains that the tale originated from merchants 
who traded in southern Isger. After all these years, 
however, present day trade caravans only know which 
routes are safe, not what or where they are avoiding. 
If the Hellbreakers ask the right questions and observe 
the undead, though, they should be able to triangulate 
the curse’s location by process of elimination.
CHAPTER TIMELINE
Below is a proposed timeline for specific events 
or deadlines featured in this chapter, though GMs 
are welcome to make adjustments to it as they 
see fit. Alceo shares any information that the 
Hellbreakers learn or any actions they take during 
the night of the day indicated via dream message. 
Meeting the suggested deadlines often gives extra 
rewards. Though missing them doesn’t impact the 
overall questline, this can limit the PCs’ options 
until they make up for them later.
CALISTRIL 4726 ar
1st: The celebration dinner takes place.
4th: Deadline for seeking Thorngrip aid.
6th: The Chitterwood Offensive successfully 
retakes Logas. Alceo negotiates an alliance 
with the Hellclad Goblins who saved Logas 
from the undead. Hellbreakers League recruits 
should convene in Logas from here on.
7th: Maire discovers Gillamoor is the source of 
the undead curse if the PCs haven’t.
9th: If the PCs have yet to investigate Gillamoor, 
the Riotmongers visit instead and discover 
that Illcayna is behind the rising undead. They 
fail to break the curse. This is the deadline to 
reconvene in Logas.
10th: The Hellbreakers army leaves Logas and 
marches toward Finder’s Gulch.
13th: The Hellbreakers army arrives on the 
outskirts of Finder’s Gulch.
19th: If she isn’t interrupted, Illcayna completes her 
curse and sacrifices Isger to Urgathoa at dusk.

===== Page 120 =====
119
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Below are questions the PCs might ask after they are 
given their tasks and the answers Alceo provides.
Which settlements are we covering? “From closest 
to furthest from Saringallow, you’re in charge of 
Swiftrun, Stumpfield, Umok, and Vordia. Oh, and add 
Wolfpoint. There might be redeemable bandits hiding 
there from the undead.”
What should we do for the settlements? “Most will 
likely need fortifications, and some might have unique 
requests based on their situations. You can always 
escort folks to safety otherwise. Oh, and you can 
also send any recruits to Saringallow, though if that 
changes, I’ll let you know.”
Do we have to search for the curse? Rhokrag perks 
up. “I’ll bet you 100 gold that Maire and I can beat 
you lot to finding the hole these things are crawling 
out of while we’re in the north.”
Make it 100 gold each and it’s on. “So, 100 gold 
from each of you if we win? Deal!”
How much time do we have? “I’d like to know if 
Thorngrip will join us within three days from today,” 
Alceo says. “It’s tight deadline, but the sooner we know, 
the more time we have to ease others into accepting 
them as allies. As for recruitment, let’s reconvene on 
the 9th, though probably not in Saringallow. I’ll update 
you about that later. As for the curse…” Alceo’s voice 
drops to a whisper. “Rhokrag usually only bets if he 
believes he can get it done in a week. No pressure.”
What can we expect Thorngrip to demand? “I truly 
can’t say. It’s always difficult to guess what would help 
achieve reconciliation. I imagine Brakknap will help 
keep the terms reasonable.”
What are the rest of you doing? “Jenvirick will 
lead the Elidirans to recruit from around the capital. 
Rhokrag and Maire are headed to Breachill first, 
but they’ll recruit as they return. Phoebe and I are 
bound for Logas; there’s contradicting information 
about what happened there, so we need to see for 
ourselves how things are. Gram will be holding down 
Saringallow while we’re away.”
How do we contact each other if we’re all on the 
move? “…I knew I was forgetting something,” 
Alceo sighs. Gram presses a wand of dream message 
(4th-rank) into the cleric’s hand with a wink.
If the PCs have other means of helping the 
Hellbreakers communicate, they can offer solutions. 
Otherwise, the Hellbreakers settle on contacting Gram 
(mysterious female halfling candler 4) in Saringallow, 
who will update Alceo daily. Alceo will then send a 
dream message each night to 11 individuals of his 
choice; the PCs should pick two in their party to be 
designated contacts. They can update Alceo on who to 
contact if need be.
Undeath in Southern Isger
After the mission briefing, the game opens into a 
slight sandbox that proceeds mostly in downtime 
mode, with exploration and encounters in between. 
While the PCs have objectives with prospective 
deadlines, where they go and when is up to them. 
They might need to retreat and recuperate before 
heading out again after encounters with the undead 
roaming the lands.
Random Encounters: As they travel, the PCs are 
likely going to be ambushed by Illcayna’s minions, who 
grow bold as her plan approaches fruition. Once per 
day, whenever the PCs travel more than 1 mile from 
their point of origin, make a secret flat check against 
a DC of 5 + the number of days into Calistril (or the 
number of days passed since this chapter started). On 
a failure, the PCs encounter a group from the Undead 
Random Encounters table below within the next 24 
hours. Use appropriate Flip-Mats that match the 
PCs’ location, or reuse maps from previous chapters. 
If the PCs or the area they are in are under an effect 
that would suppress the rise of undead, conceal their 
presence from undead, or provide any similar benefit, 
the DC of the flat check decreases by 4.
Each time the PCs defeat a random encounter, 
you can forgo the flat check for 2 days. Once the 
curse in Gillamoor has been broken (see The Curse 
of Gillamoor on page 122), the DC of the flat check 
is reduced and fixed at 5 (and possibly reduced to 
1 with further protection). Once Illcayna has been 
destroyed, these encounters stop entirely except 
within 10 miles of Gillamoor if the curse there has 
not been dispelled.
UNDEAD RANDOM ENCOUNTERS
d6	
Difficulty	
Creatures
1	
Trivial 7	
4 wights
2	
Trivial 7	
2 sarcovalts (page 234)
3	
Low 7	
1 vampire count, 2 vampire servitors
4	
Low 7	
1 skeletal Hellknight (page 233)
5	
Moderate 7	 1 sarcovalt swarm (page 235)
6	
Moderate 7	 2 godclaw hellcrowns (page 232)
HOW TO RECRUIT AN ARMY
From here on, the PCs can use the Assist a Settlement 
downtime activity and Recruit for the Cause 
exploration activity (page 120) to recruit troop units 
to use in skirmish encounters. For Chapter 7, access 
to different troops gives PCs options in an upcoming 
skirmish encounter. In Chapter 9, the number of 
troops the PCs have recruited matters slightly more. 
The PCs can continue using these activities during 
and after this chapter, either to make up for a failed

===== Page 121 =====
120
recruitment or to obtain the stronger advance troop. 
When running these activities, GMs can reintroduce 
past NPCs to provide roleplay opportunities.
Settlement Units: The troops recruitable from each 
settlement are as listed in the Settlement Units table 
above. The PCs should keep track of what and how 
many units they have recruited.
•	 Swiftrun’s Erastilian clergy are difficult to 
persuade, while the apprentice mages are eager to 
prove themselves.
•	 The nature of Stumpfield’s art makes some 
residents natural saboteurs.
•	 Stumpfield’s local spoken word association easily 
picks up warchanting.
•	 Umok can request that the wolves among their 
animal defenders aid the Hellbreakers.
•	 The gnome beastspeakers who communicate with 
the animals join if Umok is secured.
•	 While Vordia doesn’t have enough people to offer 
troops, they do know a few mercenaries they can 
hire instead.
•	 There are bandits hiding around Wolfpoint who 
can be persuaded—or intimidated—to join.
Treasure: Succeeding at the Assist a Settlement 
activity during Chapter 7 also rewards the PCs with 
items, as listed in the Settlement Skills and Rewards 
table above. Succeeding at Assist a Settlement outside 
of Chapter 7 does not yield these treasures, though 
GMs can give the items out for other accomplishments 
later at their discretion.
Reward: If the PCs successfully recruit troops from 
three different settlements, they gain 2 Reputation 
Points and 30 XP. If they manage to recruit troops from 
all five settlements, they instead gain 5 Reputation 
Points and 50 XP. This reward can be earned at any 
point, even outside of this chapter.
ASSIST A SETTLEMENT
CONCENTRATE
DOWNTIME
You spend a day helping a settlement prepare for 
incursions or defend against dangers. This is a Crafting, 
Society, or Survival check to fortify the location, or a 
Religion, Scouting Lore, or Stealth check to guard those 
leaving. The DC for these checks is a hard DC based on 
your current level (DC 25 for level 7). The GM can accept 
other skills as they see fit.
As part of this activity, the party can travel up to their 
Speed or the Speed of their mount or vehicle per day. 
Each settlement has additional skills you can use that are 
listed on the Settlement Skills and Rewards table above. 
The DC for these skills is an easy DC for your current level 
(DC 21 for level 7). You can only Assist a Settlement once 
per month.
Critical Success As success, and count your roll to Recruit 
for the Cause as one step better than what you rolled.
Success For a week, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to 
Recruit for the Cause or to Aid another PC to Recruit for 
the Cause at the settlement you assisted.
Critical Failure As success, but you gain a –2 circumstance 
penalty instead.
RECRUIT FOR THE CAUSE
EXPLORATION
You spend an hour speaking or corresponding with 
potential recruits, urging them to join the Hellbreakers’ 
cause. You can do this once per week per settlement 
or target as defined by the adventure. Once you have 
recruited a troop, you cannot recruit them again from the 
same settlement until the next chapter begins.
The DC to recruit is a very hard check for your level 
(DC 28 for level 7) using Diplomacy or Society. If more 
than one PC takes this activity at the same time, they can 
choose to roll separately or have one PC attempt the roll 
while the others Aid.
SETTLEMENT SKILLS AND REWARDS
Settlement	
Skill	
Reward (requires success or higher on Assist a Settlement)
Swiftrun	
Occultism or Religion	
1st-rank wand of mental purification (Treasure Vault 140)
Stumpfield	
Art Lore or Performance	
2 moderate antidotes
Umok 	
Crafting or Nature	
2 teal sprite apples (Treasure Vault 51)
Vordia	
Athletics or Cheliax Lore	
+1 striking handwraps of mighty blows
Wolfpoint	
Intimidation or Underworld Lore	
multiple messenger missive (Treasure Vault 85)
SETTLEMENT UNITS
Settlement	
Basic Unit	
Advance Unit
Swiftrun	
apprentice magician clique (Battlecry! 173)	Swiftrun clergy (page 220)
Stumpfield	
Stumpfield war saboteurs (page 219)	
Stumpfield war chanter choir (page 218)
Umok	
wolf pack (Battlecry! 194)	
Umok beastspeaker circle (page 221)
Vordia	
dwarf battalion (NPC Core 175)	
gnome cannon corps (Battlecry! 182)
Wolfpoint	
goblin get gang (NPC Core 187)	
bandit gang (NPC Core 22)

===== Page 122 =====
121
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
For each tier of reputation the Hellbreakers League has 
above ignored, the PCs gain a +1 circumstance bonus to 
their roll, up to a maximum of +3. For each tier 
below ignored, the PCs take a –1 circumstance 
penalty.
Critical 
Success 
The 
residents 
enthusiastically let their best join 
the fight or send a solid battalion. As 
success, plus one advance unit troop of 
the settlement joins your cause.
Success As failure, plus one basic unit of the 
settlement joins your cause.
Failure A token conscript squad (NPC Core 89) 
joins your noble cause. In Chapter 8, add the 
elite template to the squad. In Chapter 9, swap 
the unit to line infantry (NPC Core 90).
Critical Failure You accidentally offend the settlement. You 
lose 1 Reputation Point.
HOW TO DISCOVER A SOURCE
Some PCs might be more comfortable with academic 
pursuits, such as determining the location of the 
curse, than they are with attempting recruitment. This 
mission is conducted through the Locate the Curse 
downtime activity. To discover that Gillamoor is the 
curse’s source, the party needs to obtain 10 Tracking 
Points with the Victory Point system (GM Core 184).
LOCATE THE CURSE
CONCENTRATE
DOWNTIME
You spend the day pursuing rumors or tracing undead 
movements as you travel to triangulate the source of the 
undead scourge. You can take this activity once per day. 
Attempt a DC 25 Arcana, Diplomacy, Occultism, Religion, 
Survival, or suitable Lore check to Gather Information. 
GMs can allow other skills as they see fit and award 
circumstance bonuses for appropriate supporting actions 
or activities. If Brakknap is with the party, all DCs in this 
activity decrease by 5.
If the PCs don’t reach 10 Tracking Points by the 
7th of Calistril, Maire beats them to the punch. Alceo 
shares the news with everyone that night through 
dream message. As he and Phoebe can’t step away 
from Logas for a day or two yet, those closest to 
Gillamoor—likely the party—should investigate the 
place.
Treasure: Rhokrag put a lot of gold on the line to 
motivate the party. Should the PCs discover the location 
first, they can pick up their reward of 100 gp each when 
they next return to Saringallow. If they lose and pay up, 
Rhokrag gives them two jars of warding paste (page 
210) and a restful salve (page 210) each as consolation.
Reward: The PCs receive 30 XP if they locate the 
curse before Maire.
NEGOTIATING WITH GOBLINS
Recruiting Thorngrip is a more delicate 
matter given the lingering sentiments 
from the Goblinblood Wars. The 
new Hellbreakers army makes many 
goblinoids wary that it might become 
a threat to them in the future. While the 
PCs don’t meet any resistance when they 
arrive in Thorngrip, the atmosphere is tense 
and their reception cold. Brakknap is the 
only one who greets the PCs warmly.
“You come in difficult times to make a difficult request. 
The voices of my ancestors say this took place quite often 
over fifty-ten generations ago. I wonder why it stopped. 
Death has come for us all; prematurely, in many cases. I, 
for one, do not want to see the Chitterwood lifeless, so 
let us speak openly of the peace we both desire beyond 
all this death.”
After the PCs and Brakknap have caught up, they 
can begin negotiations with Thorngrip. This is an 
Influence challenge (GM Core 187) against the council 
of elders. The PCs have six 10-minute rounds to make 
their discovery and influence checks.
COUNCIL OF ELDERS
GOBLIN
HUMANOID
Cautious goblin leadership
Perception +19
Will +17
Discovery DC 23 Chitterwood, Goblin, or Isger Lore (Recall 
Knowledge), DC 24 Society (Recall Knowledge), DC 26 
Diplomacy (Gather Information)
Influence Skills DC 26 Chitterwood, Goblin or Isger Lore, 
DC 27 Diplomacy, DC 29 Deception or Intimidation
Influence 2 The PCs agree to these four terms in exchange 
for two goblin rabbles (Battlecry! 182):
•	 Chitterwood gets to rule itself autonomously.
•	 The Isgeri government must form a reconciliation 
committee with Chitterwood.
•	 Isger must establish a holiday of reconciliation that 
involves the exchange of Bounty’s Light (page 214).
•	 Isger must help the goblins restore parts of the wood 
burned down during the war.
Influence 4 The PCs agree to Chitterwood’s autonomy and 
two other terms in exchange for two goblin rabbles. The 
PCs gain 2 Reputation Points.
Influence 6 The council agrees to Chitterwood’s autonomy 
and one other term. In addition to the rabbles, the PCs 
Bounty’s Light

===== Page 123 =====
122
recruit one hobgoblin battalion (NPC Core 194). The PCs 
gain 2 Reputation Points.
Influence 8 The council only insists on Chitterwood’s 
autonomy. The PCs recruit troops as per Influence 6 and 
gain 5 Reputation Points instead of 2.
Resistances While the elders understand human memories 
are longer and slower to forgive, they believe the goblins 
and humans should continue interacting on a daily basis. 
Any influence attempts that suggest the goblinoids and 
humans should keep to themselves increase the DC of 
the roll by 2.
Weaknesses The elders love rhymes. One PC can attempt a 
DC 26 Performance or Theater Lore check at the start of 
each round to compose offers in limerick. On a success, 
all Influence DCs decrease by 2 for that round.
Background Council members have fancy or simple titles 
like “Master of the Communal Mud” or “Two.”
Appearance Six goblinoids make up this leadership council. 
All are considered elders, though this might be due to 
experience rather than age in some cases.
Personality The council is chaotic yet cohesive, each doing 
their best for this part of the Chitterwood.
Penalty The elders mistrust the written word. If the 
PCs mention or engage in the practice of writing, all 
influence DCs increase by 2 until the PCs and Brakknap 
forgo a round to assure the council that the party won’t 
bind their souls through text. Making this cultural error 
a second time increases the DCs permanently.
Development: After negotiations, Brakknap asks 
to join the party. He says he wishes to aid the PCs, 
particularly in locating the curse. The elders insist 
their advisor take two bodyguards with him (a goblin 
commando and a goblin pyro, Monster Core 174). 
While these goblins can’t participate meaningfully in 
combat, they do help drag Brakknap out of combat if 
a fight starts.
In truth, Brakknap has learned of a way to break the 
undead curse from his ancestors, but they cautioned 
that it might come at the cost of his life. The goblin 
oracle faces his end bravely for the greater good. He 
keeps this to himself, thinking the PCs and elders 
would reject his aid or prevent him from leaving if 
they knew of his impending death.
Treasure: In celebration of reaching an accord, the 
council of elders gifts Bounty’s Light (page 214) to the 
PCs.
Reward: Regardless of how well they negotiated, 
the PCs gain 80 XP.
L. The Curse of Gillamoor
After the Goblinblood Wars ended, Illcayna placed a 
curse she was testing on a merchant who was scouting 
out new trade routes. The unfortunate merchant later 
passed from sickness and was buried in Gillamoor. The 
curse on his body desecrated the settlement, and both the 
bodies previously buried in its graveyard and its living 
villagers transformed into undead. For a while, this curse 
was misidentified as a plague. The town was quarantined, 
and the steward put up a bounty for a cure. When none 
could find the nonexistent disease, however, the bounty 
was rescinded and Gillamoor forgotten… until now.
The curse is but a trial run of the ritual Illcayna 
wishes to inflict on Isger. With the true ritual underway, 
Gillamoor has become a conduit—one of many helping 
the ritual take root in the nation’s very soil. While 
dispelling the curse here does not stop Illcayna’s ritual, 
it can reduce the rate at which the undead spawn.
Village Condition: In the wake of the Goblinblood 
Wars but before the curse took hold, Gillamoor quickly 
recovered, becoming a vibrant village in the post-war 
economic boom. It was popular with caravans under 
Druma’s Mercenary League, who preferred homely 
bed-and-breakfasts to the crowded inns of larger 
settlements. Once the curse took root, the inhabitants 
left the village for the undead and weather to ravage. 
Today, Gillamoor is a decrepit ruin full of collapsed 
huts and houses. It’s devoid of the nature that usually 
reclaims such sites, and any trees still standing have an 
unhealthy wilt to them, their leaves spotted yellow and 
black. In the unsettling silence, the way to the graveyard 
is clear.
L2
L2
L1
L1
L3
L3
GILLAMOOR
GILLAMOOR

===== Page 124 =====
123
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
L2. KEEPER’S HUT
The grave keeper’s home was one of the last buildings 
to be left behind. The windows and doors are 
well-fortified. The interior is covered in a layer of 
dust but is otherwise suitable for an overnight 
rest… if the curse is no longer in effect.
Dying Erinyes: If the PCs spared Sister 
Endreah, the leader of the Golden Erinys from 
Chapter 2, they find her here with 1 Hit Point 
left, succumbing to the curse. If Endreah 
died, the PCs find Sister Sylve instead.
The Erinys sisters are not here for 
the curse; they were led here to hunt 
whoever disturbed the graves of their 
deceased. In truth, the missing dead 
have risen as wights loyal to Illcayna. 
The newly undead lured their past 
compatriots to Gillamoor in hopes of killing 
them to fuel the curse here.
Treasure: If the PCs manage to lift the curse before 
the 10th of Calistril, the sister here survives and takes 
shelter in Saringallow. She gifts the PCs the token of 
salt and earth (page 212) that saved her and points 
them to a disturbed grave where she saw a calamity 
(page 212) sticking out.
L3. THE CURSED GRAVE	
MODERATE 7
The merchant Illcayna cursed was an aiuvarin man 
from rural Druma named Dottol Harpier. Though 
his future with the caravan looked bright, Dottol’s 
life was cut short when he caught dysentery and died. 
Without a will to execute and not wanting to transport 
a possibly infectious body back to Druma, the caravan 
opted to bury him in a respectable grave in Gillamoor, 
unknowingly dooming the town.
Gillamoor’s graveyard is up on a 10-foot-high hill, 
surrounded by a brick-and-iron fence that’s 5 feet tall. 
All of the graves look like they’ve been dug up and 
desecrated. Dottol’s grave has been dug up as well, but 
his gravestone is still intact. Other than his name, the 
gravestone notes the year of his death (4702 ar) and a 
single sentence that reads, “Forever in the memory of 
the 27th contingent of the Mercenary League.”
The PCs can deduce Dottol’s ancestry and cause 
of death with a successful DC 28 Medicine check. If 
they succeed at a DC 23 Religion or Occultism check, 
they also learn that his bones are saturated with void 
energy that’s bleeding into the surrounding soil. If the 
PCs surpass this check by 5, they notice that there’s an 
even deeper well of undeath feeding and amplifying 
the curse on the body. In fact, an entire ocean’s worth 
of void energy rumbles beneath Isger, which can only 
be observed here because the body is tapping into it.
L1. THE ORDER OF THE PIKE	
TRIVIAL 7
The Hellbreakers aren’t the only ones seeking the 
curse’s source. A Hellknight contingent from the 
Order of the Pike, which is dedicated to slaying 
monsters that threaten society, broke off from 
Caeto’s forces after he ordered them to ignore 
the undead. They then located Gillamoor and 
came to see if they could solve the problem.
Creatures: Unfortunately, the undead 
thinned the Hellknights’ ranks as they 
traveled. Only Hecatinia and Hestlebeth 
Remsaine (determined female human 
Hellknight twins 3), nieces to the lictor 
of the Order of the Pike, managed 
to reach Gillamoor. When the PCs 
arrive, the twins are about to be 
overwhelmed by skeletal giants.
HECATINIA	
CREATURE 3
Watch officer (Pathfinder NPC Core 113)
Initiative Perception +9
Hunter’s Fatigue Having fought undead nonstop for 
the entire day, both Hellknights have the fatigued 
condition. The condition goes away as usual with a full 
night’s rest.
HESTLEBETH	
CREATURE 3
Jailer (Pathfinder NPC Core 112)
Initiative Perception +9
Hunter’s Fatigue As Hecatinia.
SKELETAL GIANTS (2)
CREATURE 3
Pathfinder Monster Core 313
Initiative Perception +7
Recruiting Hellknights: If the PCs save Hecatinia 
and Hestlebeth, the party can use Recruit for the 
Cause (page 120) to attempt to recruit the Order of 
the Pike. Friendly gestures such as healing the twins 
and providing shelter for them decreases the DC of 
the check by 2. On a success, the twins convince their 
aunt to send an impressive Hellknight cavalry brigade 
(NPC Core 93) to the Hellbreakers (two cavalries on 
a critical success).
Reward: If the PCs manage to recruit the Order 
of the Pike to their cause, they gain 2 Reputation 
Points. If they intentionally killed the exhausted 
armigers, the Hellbreakers lose 5 Reputation Points 
over the controversy. The sisters have a scroll with 
the ritual divine keystone (page 215) as well as the 
components necessary to cast it, having planned to 
use it to create a safe haven for themselves within 
the cursed village.
Dottol’s Grave

===== Page 125 =====
124
Lifting the Curse: If Brakknap isn’t with the party, 
the PCs can break the curse with rituals such as 
consecrate or divine keystone of 4th rank or higher. 
Other than the cost of time, the PCs might need to 
head to Logas or Saringallow to obtain ingredients if 
they don’t have any on hand.
If Brakknap is with the party, however, he reveals 
he knows of a faster method to break the curse that is 
made possible with the help of his ancestors. Unlike the 
rituals, which require greater preparation, Brakknap 
only needs to chant for 5 consecutive rounds. During 
these, he is slowed 2 each round and must remain 
within 5 feet of the grave.
Creature: While having Brakknap break the curse is 
efficient, it also marks him as a target for the undead 
to eliminate, as they can sense that his power would 
spell their doom. When the PCs or Brakknap start the 
ritual, four deathless acolytes and a Godclaw hellcrown 
stealthily rise to surround them. The acolytes come 
out from the graves, remaining close by so their aura 
can prevent healing and keep the PCs occupied. The 
Godclaw hellcrown rises outside and tries to pick 
off the ritual’s primary caster from behind the fence. 
Breaking the curse doesn’t disrupt these undead; they 
must be destroyed even if the curse is broken.
If Brakknap falls unconscious, his soul immediately 
rises and continues chanting over his own unconscious 
body. The goblin dies if he remains at 0 Hit Points 
for 3 consecutive turns. This sacrifice automatically 
breaks the curse, as his body sprouts into a tree over 
the grave with the statistics of a 4th-rank protector 
tree. Before his soul departs, Brakknap makes sure to 
comfort the PCs, saying that his death was his choice 
and wasn’t their fault, and that he’s glad to give back 
to those who gave so much for his people. Brakknap 
then joins his ancestors for his eternal rest, finally 
at peace. In the years afterward, more trees grow in 
Gillamoor in the direction of Chitterwood until the 
two woods become one.
DEATHLESS ACOLYTES OF URGATHOA (4)CREATURE 3
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
UNDEAD
Male undead worshippers of Urgathoa
Perception +9; darkvision
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Intimidation +9, Occultism +8, Religion +11, Stealth +7
Str +1, Dex +2, Con +0, Int +1, Wis +4, Cha +2
Items religious symbol of Urgathoa, scythe
AC 17; Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +11
HP 36 (void healing); Immunities death effects, disease, 
paralyzed, poison, unconscious
Field of Undeath (aura, divine, void) 20 feet. Allies within 
the aura who have void healing gain fast healing 2. 
When a creature within the aura would receive vitality 
healing, it must succeed at a DC 5 flat check or receive 
no healing from the effect.
Denounce Heretic [reaction] (divine) Trigger A creature within 
60 feet who the deathless acolyte can see and who 
doesn’t worship Urgathoa casts a divine spell; Effect The 
deathless acolyte attempts to counteract the triggering 
spell using their spell attack modifier and a counteract 
rank of 2. If the deathless acolyte fails to counteract the 
spell, the caster is temporarily immune to further uses of 
Denounce Heretic for 24 hours.
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] scythe +10 (deadly d10, trip), Damage 1d10+4 
slashing
Divine Prepared Spells DC 19, attack +11; 2nd harm (×3), 
summon dead; 1st bane, enfeeble, fear; Cantrips (2nd) 
detect magic, divine lance, forbidding ward, shield, void 
warp
Cleric Domain Spells DC 19, 1 Focus Point; 2nd touch of 
undeath
GODCLAW HELLCROWN	
CREATURE 7
Page 232
Initiative Perception +15
Development: If the PCs Search the grave, they 
uncover Dottol’s diary, which details his survey near 
Finder’s Gulch. In it, he notes the gulch is rumored to 
be the hideout of the Wight Mother of Isger. Dottol 
recorded feeling sickly after his survey, but his last 
entry takes place months later. In it, he complains of 
dysentery but rejoices to be heading for Gillamoor.
The PCs need to spend only an hour studying the 
diary to deduce that Finder’s Gulch is where they should 
head next and that Illcayna is the enemy behind the 
undead. Anyone local to Isger automatically knows the 
legendary Wight Mother of Isger is a Child of Urgathoa 
said to be destined to conquer Isger with an army of 
wights. Non-locals, however, must succeed at a DC 24 
Religion or Isger Lore check to recall this information.
SAFE HAVENS
The PCs only have Saringallow to return to 
when they start this chapter, since both Elidir 
and Logas are under martial law or overrun by 
undead, respectively. With the success of the 
Chitterwood Offensive, Logas becomes available 
as a place where the PCs can recuperate from 
the 7th of Calistril onward. The city is considered 
a level 8 settlement. Logas also provides two 
hobgoblin battalions to the PCs’ forces.

===== Page 126 =====
125
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Treasure: The PCs find a grim trophy, 20 gp, 100 gp 
worth of loose gemstones, and a restful salve.
Reward: The PCs gain 30 XP and 5 Reputation Points 
if they lift the curse in Gillamoor in addition to the usual 
XP from combat. If Brakknap is the one who breaks the 
curse and survives the process, the PCs gain an additional 
10 XP. The oracle grows more powerful, and the GM can 
apply the elite template to Brakknap’s statistics.
M. The Mystery of Finder’s 
Gulch
The town of Finder’s Gulch suffered a fate similar to 
Gillamoor’s over a century ago, though rather than a 
curse, it was Illcayna herself who brought ruination. 
She didn’t discover the significance of her lair until 
she explored the twisting tunnels beyond the cave of 
Urgathoa’s temple. Though most led to the Darklands, 
there was one that led upward, ending at a grotto that 
featured a pool clearer than crystal. While observing 
the ancient murals on the walls and drinking from its 
waters, Illcayna learned this chamber was the site where 
her ancestors first accepted Urgathoa’s grace.
It was also here that the last warband of the Twelve 
Tribes of the Seasons gathered before they took up arms 
against their undead brethren and became the Isgeri. 
The truth was in the settlement’s name all along: this 
valley was the place where Isger was founded, spiritually 
and philosophically, in both undeath and death. Most 
would have been humbled by such revelations, but 
when Illcayna gained this knowledge, it only solidified 
her belief that she was the chosen ruler of Isger.
Scouting Finder’s Gulch: Illcayna’s name is 
whispered as an urban legend; learning that she’s the 
mastermind behind the current undead horde shocks 
the Hellbreakers’ recruits. Many begin to despair, 
as they were expecting to fight cultists or destroy a 
cursed item, not take up arms against a being of legend 
and nightmares. As the Riotmongers do all they can 
to repair the nascent army’s morale, they ask the PCs 
to scout out Finder’s Gulch and prove that Illcayna’s 
forces are not invincible.
After she obtained a warshard, Illcayna believed she’d 
become untouchable and decided that her strongest 
servants would be of more use fueling the undead 
reservoir needed for her nationwide curse than they 
would protecting her. Some of these servants readily give 
their existence, while others futilely attempt to resist her. 
Finder’s Gulch is therefore low in security for the first 
time in decades—an opportunity the PCs must seize.
M1. TOWN ENTRY ROAD	
TRIVIAL 7
The abandoned farms that flank the path into town 
used to house an acolyte and a necromancer who 
served as lookouts. Both have been sacrificed to the 
curse unwillingly.
Creatures: As she still needed someone to keep 
watch, Illcayna infected the redcaps on the outskirts 
of town with a fungal affliction known as the red drip. 
She held the disease in remission and threatened to 
withdraw her protection should the fey refuse to serve 
her. The redcaps grudgingly accepted, as they preferred 
to continue their murderous ways here instead of back 
in the First World.
While the redcaps are more than happy to make 
the PCs their latest victims, any offer to cure the 
visibly infected fey makes them hesitate. If the PCs 
successfully cure the redcaps, they decide to look away 
for a few minutes and let the PCs pass. They warn that 
if the PCs return this way, though, they’ll view it as a 
sign that the PCs wish to be murdered and will fight 
to the death.
REDCAPS (2)	
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder Monster Core 290
Initiative Perception +12
Red Drip (disease, virulent) Whenever the redcap 
successfully Strikes a creature, that creature must 
attempt a Fortitude save against this debilitating fungal 
infection that slowly consumes a limb; Saving Throw DC 
22 Fortitude; Stage 1 clumsy 1 (1 day); Stage 2 clumsy 2, 
and using the infected limb deals 3d6 persistent bleed 
damage (1 day); Stage 3 clumsy 2, stupefied 2, and the 
infected limb is unusable (1 day); Stage 4 clumsy 3, 
stupefied 3, and infected limb is permanently unusable 
(1 day); Stage 5 confused, and damage does not end the 
confused condition (1 day); Stage 6 death
M2. TOWN CENTER	
MODERATE 7
After her original transformation into a Child of 
Urgathoa, Illcayna took control of the undead that 
MAP USAGE
The scale of the Finder’s Gulch’s town map makes it 
more suitable for the skirmish encounter on page 126 
than for individual encounters. GMs should use 
appropriate settlement Flip-Mats or maps of their 
choosing to better represent the area the PCs are in. 
Some particularly useful maps are noted below.
• Pathfinder Flip-Mat Classics: City Streets
• Pathfinder Flip-Mat: Ghost Towns
• Pathfinder Flip-Tiles: Urban Slums Expansion
• Pathfinder Flip-Tiles: Urban Starter Set
• Pathfinder Map Pack: Urban Sites

===== Page 127 =====
126
killed her and had them track down their makers. She 
made sure to capture the head priestess of the Ashen 
Church, Cileidia Iomandi. Illcayna always thought 
Cileidia was unworthy to serve Urgathoa, as the old 
Ustalav woman was more focused on planning how to 
attack her homeland than enacting the Pallid Princess’s 
will. Much like how she fed herself to the undead, 
Illcayna cut Cileidia and let the wights devour the 
priestess. While it was technically a proper final sacrifice 
in honor of a servant of Urgathoa who completed their 
task, Illcayna was personally glad to rid the cult of what 
she considered to be an embarrassment of a worshipper.
Haunt: The echoes of Cileidia’s gruesome end 
manifested as a haunt in the years after her death. The 
cultists serving Illcayna tolerated it, especially since 
she was fond of rewatching Cileidia’s demise. Since the 
curse ritual began, however, echoes of Illcayna’s own 
death have resurfaced as well. The similarities between 
the two priestesses’ deaths caused the two spiritual 
echoes to resonate until they merged.
When the haunt is active, creatures trained in 
Perception and not caught by the haunt notice a feminine 
figure flickering in the center of the haunt, which throngs 
of undead descend upon and devour. The visage of the 
figure changes rapidly, alternating between images of 
two different priestesses. The young priestess cries tears 
of joy as she holds out her arms to accept her fate, while 
the elderly priestess cries out in pain and panic, her arms 
bound to pillars with ropes. Both appear to be bleeding 
from long cuts made to the body.
CANNIBALIZATION OF THE PRIESTESS	
HAUNT 9
COMPLEX
HAUNT
Stealth +20 (expert)
Description Spectral undead converge on any living 
creatures to rip into and devour them.
Disable DC 28 Athletics to push past or run away, or 
Occultism or Religion (expert) to exorcise the haunt
Swarm [reaction] Trigger A living creature enters the square of 
the town center; Effect All creatures within area M2 
take 3d10 slashing damage (DC 28 basic Reflex save). 
The haunt then rolls initiative.
Routine (1 action) The haunt converges upon all creatures 
currently bleeding in area M2. The targeted creatures 
must attempt a DC 28 basic Fortitude save against 3d6 
spirit damage and 3d6 void damage from the spirits 
pulling and gnawing on their souls. On a critical failure, 
the creature also suffers 2d6 persistent bleed damage.
1 SQUARE = 25 FEET
1 SQUARE = 25 FEET
M3
M3
M4
M4
M6
M6
M2
M2
M8
M8
M9
M9
M1
M1
M5
M5
FINDER’S GULCH TOWN
FINDER’S GULCH TOWN
M7
M7

===== Page 128 =====
127
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Reset The haunt deactivates 1 minute after there are no 
bleeding creatures left in M2. If disabled, it resets after 1 
day. Destroying Illcayna is the only way to permanently 
destroy this haunt.
Treasure: The first time the PCs disable the haunt, it 
disappears with a scream and leaves behind a tattered 
red cloth that acts like a blade thousand-pains fulu 
(Treasure Vault 79).
M3. SACRIFICIAL SITE	
LOW 7
Worshippers of other faiths were sacrificed at this 
patch of scorched earth in the past. There used to be a 
haunt here, but with Illcayna’s ritual underway, it has 
dissipated to allow something else to take its place.
Creature: The most recent sacrifice of Illcayna’s 
own servants created an incendiary undead known as 
a sulfur zombie. Illcayna considers dealing with these 
residues to be beneath her. She appointed three newly 
risen erinys sister wights to keep the fiery undead in 
check. Having been defeated by the PCs in the past, 
the undead sisters fight until destroyed. Note that the 
erinys sister wights only have a claw and a dart Strike 
instead of the usual attacks of a wight.
SULFUR ZOMBIE	
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder Monster Core 2 358
Initiative Perception +12
ERINYS SISTER WIGHTS (3)	
CREATURE 3
Wight (Pathfinder Monster Core 348)
Languages Common, Diabolic, Necril
Grave Weapon (divine) The erinys sister wight is bound to 
the darts she was buried with.
Items darts (5)
Claw of Pain As sister of the Golden Erinys (page 44).
Flurry of Blows [one-action] (flourish) As novitiate (page 43).
Treasure: The sulfur zombie crumbles to dust once 
defeated. Its ashes can be collected into a dose of dust 
of corpse animation.
M4. DESECRATED CHURCH	
SEVERE 7
The Urgathoans have thoroughly desecrated this 
former temple to Pharasma. All windows are broken, 
and the walls have been graffitied with praises to the 
Pallid Princess. Attempts to fully tear down the building 
have always failed, so the structure was eventually 
left alone. When the delegation from the Whispering 
Way requested a permanent residence, the Urgathoans 
arranged for them to move into this building as a 
stealthy insult. The map of the interior of this church 
is on page 128.
The Whispering Way’s assistance is naturally not 
altruistic, as Tar-Baphon would not mind having 
another Child of Urgathoa as a servant. If that servant 
came with a piece of territory, all the better. There’s 
also the concern that a warshard-empowered Illcayna 
could become an enemy, as she would soundly reject the 
idea of serving anyone but Urgathoa. The Whispering 
Way thus sent the dhampir witch Varlario Demicci 
(carefree agender dhampir witch 8) to Isger as both a 
goodwill ambassador and a spy. Varlario has furthered 
Illcayna’s plans and in the process learned many of her 
weaknesses. The witch has even developed a spell to 
deprive the Wight Mother of Isger of her warshard 
should the need arise.
Creatures: With Illcayna busy with her ritual, 
Varlario found time to invite a sarcovalt and two 
skavelings from the Whispering Way over as guests. 
Varlario doesn’t mind the PCs overhearing their 
conversation, finding it amusing that anyone might 
consider taking Illcayna down instead of fleeing. In 
their opinion, the wannabe-heroes are a few months 
too late; if Illcayna hadn’t gotten the warshard, they 
might have stood a chance. If they converse with 
Varlario, the PCs easily get the sense that the spy 
wouldn’t mind establishing a secret alliance. While 
Varlario can assist the PCs in learning Illcayna’s 
weaknesses, making a deal with the Whispering Way 
greatly harms the reputation of the Hellbreakers, 
causing the PCs to lose 5 Reputation Points.
In combat, the sarcovalt and the skavelings fight to 
the death, while Varlario fights until they are below 50 
Hit Points. Once they hit this threshold, Varlario begs 
for mercy, offering anything the PCs wish in exchange 
for their life. If the PCs don’t give up, Varlario distracts 
them by throwing their items at them before using 
their translocate spell to flee.
SARCOVALT	
CREATURE 5
Page 234
Initiative Perception +13
SKAVELINGS (2)	
CREATURE 5
 Pathfinder Monster Core 2 287
Initiative Perception +15
VARLARIO DEMICCI	
CREATURE 8
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
DHAMPIR
FETCHLING
HUMANOID
Agender agent of the Whispering Way
Perception +13; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Common, Draconic, Necril, Shadowtongue, 
Varisian
Skills Acrobatics +13, Deception +16, Intimidation +13, 
Occultism +18, Religion +13, Stealth +13, Undead Lore +16

===== Page 129 =====
128
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +4, Int +6, Wis +3, Cha +5
Items +1 dagger, hand crossbow (10 bolts), 10 gp worth of 
onyx
AC 25 (explorer’s clothing); Fort +19, Ref +16, Will +13
HP 110 (void healing)
Shadow Blending [reaction] (illusion, occult, shadow) Frequency 
once per minute; Trigger A creature attempts a flat check 
to target Varlario while they are concealed or hidden due 
to dim light or darkness; Effect Shadows wrap around 
Varlario’s form. The DC of the flat check increases by 2.
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] dagger +19 (agile, finesse, thrown 10 feet, 
versatile S), Damage 2d6+10 piercing
Ranged [one-action] fist +18 (agile, nonlethal), Damage 2d6+8 
bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] hand crossbow +18 (range 60 feet), Damage 
2d8+10 piercing
Divine Innate Spells DC 26; 2nd harm; 1st undeath’s 
blessing; Cantrips (4th) void warp
Occult Prepared Spells DC 26, attack +18; 4th confusion, 
fly, mystic armor, translocate; 3rd paralyze, summon 
undead, vampiric feast (×2); 2nd darkness, blur, 
invisibility, see the unseen; 1st command, fear, grim 
tendrils, pet cache; Cantrips (6th) daze, detect magic, 
read aura, shield
Witch Hex Spells (4th) 3 Focus Points, attack +18; 4th 
malicious shadow, needle of vengeance, phase familiar; 
Cantrips (4th) void warp
Rituals DC 26; create undead
Hidden Familiar Varlario has hidden their bat familiar 
through the pet cache spell. They keep the bat contained 
except when they use shred spirit.
Shred Spirit [two-actions] (concentrate, spirit) Frequency once per 
minute; Effect Varlario sends forth their bat familiar as a 
phantasmal conduit to rip at the soul of a creature within 
30 feet. The targeted creature must succeed at a DC 26 
basic Will save or take 9d6 spirit damage. Varlario then 
recovers Hit Points equal to half the damage dealt.
Treasure: Other than loot from the enemies, the PCs 
can find a powerful occult magnet Varlario designed to 
steal Illcayna’s warshard. The PCs can also learn from 
Varlario’s notes that Illcayna’s final ritual is set to take 
effect on the evening of the 19th of Calistril, as dusk 
gives way to night. To finalize the curse, Illcayna must 
return to a location in Finder’s Gulch that Varlario 
hasn’t been privy to. The location in question is the 
Grotto of the Sacrificed (page 130).
M5. WEST TOWN
Before Illcayna’s transformation, the Ashen Church 
lived and operated in the west part of town. The secret 
basements and rooms here remained in use to create 
undead after the cult’s annihilation. A brief exploration 
of the buildings reveals paperwork and correspondence 
left behind by Illcayna’s servants, some half-finished 
before their authors were sacrificed to the growing 
curse. A PC who succeeds at a DC 24 Religion, Undead 
Lore, or Warfare Lore check can use the information 
here to research the types of troops they might face in 
the Siege of Finder’s Gulch (page 133). On a critical 
success, they can also estimate the number of troops 
they’ll run up against.
Treasure: Searching through the buildings, the PCs 
can uncover 220 gp worth of onyx left behind from 
create undead rituals. There’s also enough information 
here for them to learn the ritual if they wish.
M6. SARCOVALT HIVE	
MODERATE 7
North of the town center lie several buildings that used 
to be the political center of Finder’s Gulch. The largest 
building served as an open town hall beside which the 
mayor lived. There are also two community gardens: one 
for herbs and one (surprisingly) for poisonous plants.
Creature: Where there is fervent Urgathoa worship, 
there are sarcovalts. Occasionally, when Illcayna 
deems a person so unworthy that she wouldn’t even 
give them the privilege of becoming undead, she 
summons sarcovalts to dispatch the eyesore. It’s been 
a while since Illcayna sacrificed servants worthy or 
unworthy, and the hungry sarcovalt hive in the area 
pounces on the PCs the first chance they get.
DESECRATED CHURCH
DESECRATED CHURCH
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 130 =====
129
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
SARCOVALT SWARM
CREATURE 9
Page 235
Initiative Perception +19
Treasure: If the PCs Search the 
poisonous plant garden, they can obtain 
a dose of tangle root toxin and a dose of 
nettleweed residue.
M7. EMPTY ROAD
LOW 7
This straight path used to be the 
commercial heart of town, filled with 
businesses that were small but essential. 
Now, the shopfronts are devoid of goods, 
and the residences above them are empty.
Creature: A skeletal Hellknight bonesinger 
patrols these streets in a mockery of 
Cheliax’s supposed grip on the nation.
SKELETAL HELLKNIGHT BONESINGER

CREATURE 8
Page 233
Initiative Perception +15
M8. FROZEN RIVER
This part of Finder’s Gulch has been flooded since a 
rockslide downstream (northeast of area M2) slowed 
the flow of the stream. As it’s currently winter, the 
water has frozen in slippery ice. The ice is considered 
difficult terrain, though a creature can attempt to 
move on it at full Speed. To do so, they must succeed 
at a DC 28 Acrobatics check to maintain their balance. 
On failure, they fall prone.
Hazard: The river’s ice is thin. If two or more PCs 
walk onto the ice, they hear a series of metallic cracks, 
indications that the ice is about to break.
THIN ICE
HAZARD 8
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth DC 28 (expert)
Description The white-and-blue ice is less structurally 
sound than it looks.
Disable DC 31 Nature or Survival (expert) to spread out 
and prevent the ice from cracking further, or DC 31 
Acrobatics or Athletics (trained) to get off the ice safely 
as it cracks.
Crack [reaction] Trigger Two or more creatures step onto the ice 
in area M8; Effect The ice beneath the party cracks. All 
creatures in area M8 must attempt a DC 30 Reflex save. 
On a failure, they fall into the freezing water, whereupon 
they must succeed at a basic DC 30 Fortitude save 
against 4d10+22 cold damage. On a critical failure, the 
creature must start holding their breath or risk drowning 
as their muscles lock and they begin to sink. A creature 
must spend an action to Swim to the shore and must 
then succeed at a DC 30 Athletics check to Climb up out 
of the water.
Reset The river freezes over every night, 
restoring this hazard. The hazard disappears 
once the vernal equinox passes.
Treasure: If a PC Searches the bottom 
of the riverbed, they find a delaying aeon 
stone and a greater devilwing badge (page 
211) that were dropped by adventurers 
who fell to Illcayna.
M9. TEMPLE OF URGATHOA
This cave used to be a shrine to another 
goddess until Illcayna claimed it. The 
cultists destroyed the original reliefs 
and covered what remained with 
depictions of Urgathoa’s hedonism. 
The interior is draped in chains of phalanges 
connected with sinew, a way for Illcayna to display of 
the number of creatures she has recruited into her fold 
over the years.
Fortunately for the PCs, Illcayna is out surveying 
her work. She has left the temple unguarded out of 
arrogance, believing she and her plans are untouchable. 
The PCs have plenty of time to Search the location and 
discover the secret entrance to the tunnels that lead 
to the Darklands. If the PCs have Bounty’s Light or 
Lifebloom in their possession, fluorescent stencils of 
hands and feet appear along the walls of the tunnels, 
guiding them to the Grotto of the Sacrificed (page 
130). The journey takes only 10 minutes, though the 
winding path makes it feel much longer.
Treasure: In a treasure box behind a good lock 
(five DC 30 Thievery checks), the PCs find a potion 
of flying, a pallid crystal (page 199), and a discarded 
greater staff of healing.
CLEARING FINDER’S GULCH
It takes the Hellbreakers army 3 days to travel from 
Logas to Finders Gulch. After arriving, they camp 
on the outskirts, which allows the PCs to rest safely 
outside the town without fear of being attacked. As 
the army needs time to recover from their march 
and conduct some last-minute training, the task of 
clearing out the town of Finder’s Gulch falls to the 
PCs. Once the ruins are cleared, the army moves into 
the town itself and Finder’s Gulch effectively becomes 
a level 3 settlement.
Treasure: The army arrives with two catapults 
(Guns and Gears 75), which Rhokrag eagerly gives 
Varlario

===== Page 131 =====
130
a demonstration with. The PCs are given control of 
these and can put them anywhere in Finder’s Gulch. 
Moving the siege weapons into place takes an hour 
each time.
Reward: If the PCs manage to clear the town of 
hostiles before or on the day the army arrives, they 
gain 50 XP and 5 Reputation Points. If they clear it 
after the army arrives, they only receive 30 XP and 2 
Reputation Points.
N. The Grotto of the 
Sacrificed
The walls of this 20-foot-high ellipsoid cave are 
fully decorated with murals whose magical pigments 
survived the ravages of time and weather. Despite 
Illcayna’s influence, the plants here remain lush, 
though they frost over in winter. A large opening 
about the same size as the pool within the grotto 
allows the natural light in.
As perhaps one last attempt to record who they 
were, the last of the Twelve Tribes painted the walls to 
depict their culture, icons, and beliefs. There are four 
major murals, each dedicated to a season, and since 
there were three tribes per season, every season is also 
associated with three patron deities. This connection 
partially survived to modern times in the names of the 
months of the modern Avistani calendar.
Reward: The PCs receive 80 XP for fully exploring 
all areas of the grotto.
N1. MURAL OF SPRING
Flowers blooming upon branches without leaves make up 
the border of this mural. Members of the Twelve Tribes 
in varied clothing and body paint holding their sacred 
implements gather around a warrior who raises Lifebloom. 
On the trees and field flanking this image, animals rouse 
from sleep. A butterfly bearing the moon on its wings and 
a flock of whip-poor-wills stand out in particular. There are 
also sprays of petals that suggest wind blowing.
A PC who succeeds at a DC 23 Religion or Nature 
check recognizes the favored animals of Desna and 
Pharasma. If their result is at least 28, they also discern 
that the animals and wind likely represent Gozreh.
Spring Awakening: If a PC holding Lifebloom 
touches the mural outside of combat, all in the 
grotto find themselves in a nightscape version of the 
grotto. Specters of the Isgeri surround them. If any 
PCs speak Hallit, they recognize a few words as the 
N5
N5
N1
N1
N3
N3
N2
N2
N4
N4
GROTTO OF THE SACRIFICED
GROTTO OF THE SACRIFICED
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 132 =====
131
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
ghosts speak an ancient form of the language. Once 
they overcome the language barrier by drinking 
from the Pool of Memories in area N5, likely at the 
spirits’ own urging, the PCs can 
communicate freely and learn 
about the founding of Isger 
from these warriors, as covered 
in this chapter’s opening.
While these spirits don’t 
know 
Illcayna’s 
backstory, 
they do know she is kin. As 
spirits, they cannot attack her 
unless she attacks them first, 
something Illcayna knows as 
well. The warriors are therefore unable to 
help the PCs in taking down Illcayna, though they are 
willing to share their experiences.
N2. MURAL OF SUMMER
Though the border of this mural depicts flames, the painting 
is welcoming rather than intimidating. The center depicts 
the Kellid tribes on one side and a group of goblinoids 
emerging from a forest on the other. Bounty’s Light sits 
between the two, ambiguous in which direction it’s passed. 
A dove with a sun crown flies above the exchange, and a 
stag and rhinoceros flank the image as witnesses.
PCs who succeed at a DC 23 Religion or Survival 
check to Recall Knowledge recognize the favored 
animals to be those of Sarenrae, Erastil, 
and Gorum. If a PC rolls 28 or higher, 
they intuit that the message is about two 
peoples at peace, but that the chances 
of war breaking out are ever present.
Midsummer 
Dreams: 
When 
a PC holding Bounty’s Light 
touches the mural, everyone in 
the grotto must attempt a DC 28 
Will save against a 4th-rank sleep 
spell. PCs who sleep for 1 minute 
from the spell wake as if they had taken 
a full long rest. Any daily preparations 
necessary are included in this effect. A PC who 
benefited from this nap must wait a week before they 
can benefit from it again. They can accept the sleep 
effect any number of times.
N3. MURAL OF AUTUMN
A large wheat field serves as the mural’s backdrop. 
Some people are harvesting, while others are hunting 
on horseback. There is a disconcerting aura despite 
the serene image, as scorpions and jackals leer at the 
bountiful harvest.
It’s here that the PCs notice that 
there’s a faint carving of a serpent 
that wraps around the entire 
grotto. PCs who succeed at a 
DC 23 Farming Lore or Religion 
check to Recall Knowledge 
recognize the favored animals 
of Rovagug and Lamashtu, with 
the serpent likely representing 
Asmodeus. If they roll 28 or 
higher, the PCs recall that there’s 
an ancient calendar system where a leap 
month would be inserted at different times of the year, 
and that Asmodeus might symbolize that “rogue” 
month. This is highly ironic as Taldor, the odd army 
out in the war against the wights, ended up splintered, 
and the province that broke the empire later dedicated 
itself to the Prince of Hell. It’s as if the Isgeri predicted 
Cheliax’s infernal future.
The Rightful Goddess: One of the feminine figures 
seated on a horse holds a black scythe (Reaper’s Sigh, 
page 214), though the distinct lack of flies and rot 
suggests she is not Urgathoa. Every time the PCs fall 
asleep to the effect in area N2, this woman visits them 
in their dreams. Other than traditional Kellid attire, 
she wears stripes of white ash. As she approaches, the 
woman bleaches as she becomes a wight and her 
steed rots to a skeleton.
This is a spirit much like those 
encountered in area N1, except she 
speaks from the perspective of 
those who became the wights that 
defended Isger. As Illcayna’s direct 
ancestor, this spirit knows Illcayna’s 
backstory. If questioned about 
Illcayna, the spirit laments that their 
ill choice condemned her and how 
their holy implement, Reaper’s Sigh, 
was corrupted as punishment. The spirit 
urges the PCs to “evoke the true goddess of 
the harvest” to cleanse the scythe; a PC who succeeds 
at a DC 34 Religion check knows that the spirit is 
referring to Jaidi.
N4. MURAL OF WINTER
In a rather unusual choice, perhaps to represent 
themselves walking to their deaths, the artists painted 
the mural of winter surrounding the entrance. The border 
of painted frost and snow can almost be mistaken to be 
 Mural of Autumn
Pool of Memories

===== Page 133 =====
132
the real thing. Few creatures are depicted except for 
three humanoid figures. They huddle in a hut, making 
handicrafts by a hearth. One is draped in gold and 
silver. The other two wear clothes of many colors, 
and their handicrafts are just as bright.
PCs who succeed at a DC 23 Religion or Society 
check to Recall Knowledge recognize the 
figure in gold to be Abadar and another 
to be Shelyn. If they roll at least 28, they 
presume by process of elimination that 
the other figure should be Zon-Kuthon, though 
he looks nothing like the Midnight Lord. This 
is because the image is of the god Zon-Kuthon 
used to be, called Dou-Bral in the days before 
he changed.
N5. POOL OF MEMORIES
Were it not for its reflective surface, 
one might not even realize this is a pool of 
water. The water is surprisingly thin and does not impede 
movement at all.
Any PCs who drink the waters here receive a rush of 
ancient memories in flashes, mostly involving the past 
inhabitants’ struggle against the four-centuries-long 
Taldane incursion. How this pool formed is sadly a 
magical art lost to time.
Each time the PCs drink, they gain the ability to 
understand the spirits in the grotto for 1 hour. However, 
they must also succeed at a DC 28 Will save or become 
stupefied 1 for the same duration. The DC of the save 
increases by 2 for each subsequent drink, and the 
condition also increases by 1, up to stupefied 3. Upon 
three failures (a critical failure counts as two), the PC 
is permanently slowed 1 as they become burdened 
by ancient memories. The stupefied condition can be 
reduced by appropriate spells, but the permanent slowed 
condition requires effects like wish or stronger to remove.
Winter’s End
While Illcayna left Finder’s Gulch unguarded more out of 
overconfidence than strategy, it does put the Hellbreakers 
in an odd position. Instead of attacking Illcayna in her 
home, they must now keep her from reaching the Grotto 
of the Sacrificed to complete her ritual and enact her 
curse. It’s more likely, therefore, that the Hellbreakers 
will find themselves under siege soon. Simply throwing 
their troops at the undead would be ineffective, but 
luckily, the Whispering Way has been plotting against 
Illcayna, seeking to weaken her through her very own 
curse via a counter-ritual they call Wight Queen’s thaw. 
The PCs can learn about this counter-ritual through 
Varlario Demicci or her notes (area M5).
Once the PCs have cleared Finder’s Gulch of threats, 
they have time to research this counter-ritual 
and other ways to weaken Illcayna until she 
returns on the 19th. Alceo suggests that they 
look into how to stop Illcayna if none of the 
PCs think to engage in this research on their 
own. This investigation uses the Research 
subsystem on page 190 of GM Core. Most 
of the research takes place in Finder’s Gulch, 
but the PCs might need to venture out to other 
settlements to find answers. Each research check 
takes 4 hours, but this doesn’t include any 
travel time to go to other places.
Meanwhile, under the direction of 
the 
Riotmongers, 
any 
assembled 
Hellbreakers and their allies begin 
fortifying Finder’s Gulch in preparation 
for 
Illcayna’s 
return. 
Instead 
of 
researching, PCs can use the intervening time 
to perform downtime activities and continue 
to help settlements, recruit troops, or break the curse 
in Gillamoor if they haven’t yet.
AREAS OF RESEARCH
The PCs can perform research checks in the following 
areas to learn how to stop Illcayna.
Search Finder’s Gulch: The town has been Illcayna’s 
base of operations for years, so lingering traces of her 
energy and other information should help the PCs 
uncover her weaknesses; Maximum RP 10; Research 
Checks DC 18 Urgathoa Lore to recall information 
about related undead creatures, DC 21 Occultism or 
Religion to examine sacrificial sites, DC 23 Diplomacy 
or Intimidation to get information from Whispering 
Way cultists.
Commune in the Grotto: The Grotto of the Sacrificed 
holds mystical and spiritual energy that could help 
direct the PCs’ research; Maximum RP 10; Research 
Checks DC 20 Isger Lore or Society to decipher the 
many murals; DC 23 Diplomacy to commune with 
the resident spirits; DC 25 Occultism or Religion to 
extract meaning from visions provided by the pool of 
memories.
Field Research: By scouring the remains of 
Gillamoor or by sneaking back into Elidir to find 
treatises on undeath, the PCs might learn about 
Illcayna’s methods and her grasp on existence; 
Maximum RP 5; Research Checks DC 23 Occultism 
or Religion to glean knowledge from any discoveries, 
DC 25 Perception to find specific books or clues, DC 
25 Stealth to stay hidden from lingering threats.
Reaper’s Sigh

===== Page 134 =====
133
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
STOPPING ILLCAYNA	
RESEARCH 7
UNIQUE
DIVINE
UNDEAD
Research Checks search Finder’s Gulch (area M), 
commune in the grotto (area N), field research (outside 
of Finder’s Gulch)
3 	 Research Points The PCs find an inert sample of the 
disease carried by all children of Urgathoa: the pallid 
plague. They can then concoct a temporary vaccine 
against it, granting them a +2 circumstance bonus to 
their saves against Illcayna’s pallid plague.
5 	 Research Points The PCs learn that the illumination 
of Bounty’s Light empowers those who stand against 
undead like Illcayna. PCs and allies within the bright 
light shed by that relic gain a +2 status bonus to all 
saving throws against Illcayna’s spells.
10 	Research Points The PCs uncover stories of how 
Lifebloom is enchanted to strike fear into the hearts of 
wights who beheld the blade. A PC who wields that relic 
can spend a single action to brandish it like a religious 
symbol. Illcayna and any wights who can see this 
become frightened 3 (DC 23 Will save) and can’t reduce 
the value of their frightened condition for as long as a 
living creature wields Lifebloom in their line of sight. At 
this point, Illcayna’s undead minions sense that the PCs 
are learning how to defeat their progenitor and move to 
ambush them. If the PCs are outside Finder’s Gulch (or 
the next time they leave the town), roll on the undead 
encounter chart.
12 	Research Points The PCs understand that Varlario’s 
occult magnet in area M4 might be used to extract 
Illcayna’s warshard from her body and master its usage. 
How to do so and its effects are described in Warshard 
Extraction on page 135.
15 	Research Points The PCs learn the full details of the 
Whispering Way’s counter-ritual, Wight Queen’s thaw. 
Alceo volunteers to perform the counter-ritual when 
Illcayna arrives to ensure the PCs can take the fight to 
her. Before each of her turns in the encounter with her, 
Illcayna must attempt a DC 10 flat check. On a failure, 
she is slowed 1 for that round.
20 	RP The echo of Cileidia’s death (as seen in the haunt 
in area M2) can be turned against Illcayna if she’s 
damaged by Reaper’s Sigh. What happens if the PCs 
successfully turn the weapon against her is described 
in Final Feast on page 135. How they might disarm 
her of the scythe remains a challenge, especially as 
it’s melded into her arm. Learning this information 
produces another echo of Cileidia’s death wherever the 
PCs are. They encounter the haunt from area M2 again, 
even if it has been deactivated.
25 	RP The Urgathoan temple in Finder’s Gulch (area 
M9) used to be a shrine to Jaidi, the Azlanti goddess 
known as the Blessing and Bounty and spouse of 
Erastil. Urgathoa replaced her as the tribe’s patron 
after Earthfall took place. Evoking Jaidi’s name and 
prayer is the key to purifying Reaper’s Sigh; when in 
Illcayna’s presence, a PC can spend an action with the 
concentrate trait and attempt a DC 25 Farming Lore, 
Nature, or Religion check to implore Jaidi to reclaim 
the scythe. On a success, Reaper’s Sigh glows, dealing 
2d6 spirit damage with the holy trait (double on a 
critical success) to Illcayna, who is then disarmed of 
the weapon. In such an instance, she can’t pick it back 
up again.
Reward: The PCs receive 80 XP for completing 
their research on the topic. Otherwise, the PCs gain 
30 XP.
The Siege of Finder’s GulchLow 7
This event occurs on the afternoon of the 19th of 
Calistril. Illcayna and her army descend upon Finder’s 
Gulch to complete her curse. Luckily, Hellbreakers 
scouts spot their approach, and the PCs have time to 
prepare against the undead.
This encounter uses the skirmish warfare rules 
found on pages 158–169 of Battlecry! GMs should 
read up on these rules before running this encounter. 
The objective of this encounter is to destroy Illcayna’s 
armies. This encounter begins in area M1, the town 
outskirts, and the buildings here are intact enough to 
be impassable for troops. Use the Finder’s Gulch map 
from page 126. 
Picking Troops: For combat, each PC takes 
command of a 7th-level troop from the following 
list: bandit gang (NPC Core 22), elite hobgoblin 
battalion (NPC Core 5, 194), gnome cannon corps 
(Battlecry! 182), Stumpfield war chanters (page 
218), Umok beastspeakers (page 221), and a weak 
Hellknight cavalry brigade (NPC Core 5, 92). A 
troop is available only if the PCs have recruited them 
earlier in the chapter, though enough elite hobgoblin 
battalions arrive from Logas to give each PC a troop 
to command.
Creatures: Illcayna has an army of undead at her 
command, and the PCs and their troops face off 
against two skeleton mobs and two wight battalions. 
Other groups the Hellbreakers recruited hold the rest 
of the undead army at bay in other parts of the town, 
succeeding if the PCs do well but faltering if the PCs 
are also being routed.
Illcayna remains out of the fray for now, believing 
her army to be enough to crush the living who have 
invaded her town. She spectates in amusement until the 
PCs vanquish her troops. Then, she flies in the direction 
of the grotto, where the PCs can confront her.

===== Page 135 =====
134
SKELETON MOBS (2)	
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder Battlecry! 191
Initiative Perception +11
WIGHT BATTALIONS (2)	
CREATURE 9
Pathfinder Battlecry! 194
Initiative Perception +18
Wight Queen’s Thaw: When the undead army 
arrives, Alceo begins the counter-ritual if the PCs 
successfully researched it. As the skirmish battle nears 
its end, Alceo completes enough of the counter-ritual 
to affect Illcayna as described on page 133. She lets 
out a howl of rage but doesn’t approach the grotto 
until this fight is over.
In Case of Failure, Break Ice: Should the tide of 
battle turn unfavorable, Phoebe orders the PCs to 
retreat to area M9. Once the PCs make it into the 
temple, the Riotmongers signal to explode the rocks 
damming the river (above area M2). This causes the 
dam to break and the frozen river to rapidly crack 
and start flowing. The sweeping current floods the 
town, washing away Illcayna’s armies.
Development: Defeating Illcayna’s army is only a 
temporary setback for her. Though she might have 
lost the battle, she can still win the war if she makes 
her way into the Grotto of the Sacrificed. The PCs 
should head there as soon as possible.
Reward: The PCs earn 60 XP if they rout or defeat 
Illcayna’s troops in this skirmish encounter.
THE WIGHT MOTHER OF ISGER	
EXTREME 7
After they arrive at the grotto, the PCs have 10 
minutes to prepare before Illcayna gets there. Since 
the sun has set, the grotto has only dim light unless 
artificially modified. Use the map on page 130 for 
this encounter.
Creatures: Illcayna chides the PCs for working 
against their own interests as she descends from 
above, summoning her warshard wights to the 
entrance. After all, she also seeks to free Isger! 
Illcayna tries to diminish the PCs’ accomplishments 
while emphasizing how she has a destiny to fulfill. 
Too proud to see the possibility of her destruction, 
she and her warshard wights fight until destroyed.
WARSHARD WIGHTS (4)
CREATURE 5
RARE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
UNHOLY
WIGHT
Variant wights (Pathfinder Monster Core 348)
Perception +13; darkvision
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Athletics +14, Intimidation +13, Religion +11, 
Stealth +14
Str +4, Dex +2, Con +4, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +3
Urgathoa’s Weapon (divine) The warshard wight 
has a scythe arm resembling a Child of Urgathoa.
AC 22; Fort +14, Ref +12, Will +13
HP 82; Immunities death effects, disease, 
paralyzed, poison, unconscious
Final Spite [reaction] Trigger The warshard wight 
is reduced to 0 Hit Points; Effect The 
warshard wight makes a Strike before being 
destroyed. It doesn’t gain any temporary 
Hit Points from drain life on this Strike.
Melee [one-action] scything blade +16 (deadly d10, 
magical, reach 10 feet, trip), Damage 
1d8+9 slashing plus drain life
Melee [one-action] claw +16 (agile, magical), 
Damage 1d8+9 slashing plus drain life
Bloody Wail [two-actions] (auditory, divine) The 
warshard wight cries out in an unearthly 
shriek. Living creatures within 50 feet must attempt a 
DC 23 Fortitude save. The warshard wight can’t make 
another bloody wail for 1d4 rounds.	
Critical Success The creature is unaffected and becomes 
temporarily immune for 1 minute.
Warshard Wight

===== Page 136 =====
135
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Success The creature bleeds from their ears and becomes 
stupefied 1 for 1 round.
Failure The creature bleeds from their ears and becomes 
stupefied 2 for 1 round.
Critical Failure As failure, and the creature takes a –2 
status penalty to saving throws against drain life.
Drain Life (divine) When the warshard wight damages a 
living creature with a melee Strike using an unarmed 
attack or its bound weapon, the warshard wight gains 
5 temporary Hit Points and the creature must succeed 
at a DC 20 Fortitude save or become drained 1. Further 
damage dealt by the warshard wight increases the 
drained condition value by 1 on a failed save, to a 
maximum of drained 4.
Warshard Wight Spawn (divine) A living humanoid slain by 
a warshard wight’s scything blade or claw Strike rises as 
a spawned wight after 1d4 rounds. This spawned wight 
is under the command of the warshard wight that killed 
it. It doesn’t have drain life or warshard wight spawn 
and is clumsy 2 for as long as it’s a spawned wight. If its 
creator dies, the spawned wight becomes a full-fledged, 
autonomous warshard wight; it regains its free will, 
gains drain life and warshard wight spawn, and is no 
longer clumsy.
ILLCAYNA ALONNOR
CREATURE 9
Page 242
Initiative Perception +23
Though this is an extreme encounter (as Illcayna is 
still very powerful), the PCs have several ways to turn 
the tide in their favor. What they’ve learned through 
their research comes into play now!
Warshard Extraction: A PC who understands how 
to remove Illcayna’s warshard using Varlario’s occult 
magnet can perform an Interact action while adjacent 
to Illcayna and wielding the magnet. Illcayna must 
attempt a DC 29 Fortitude save. On a failure, the 
warshard is pulled forcibly from her body and into 
that PC’s possession. Illcayna loses her ability to use 
the Bleeding Heart of Urgathoa as a greater symbol 
of conflict. She also loses her bonus to saves against 
holy effects and her ability to make warshard-tipped 
entrail melee Strikes.
Final Feast: The PCs can either disarm Illcayna of 
Reaper’s Sigh or use the prayer they learned through 
research to force it to fall from her body. Once she 
loses Reaper’s Sigh, Illcayna cannot use her Reaper’s 
Sigh Strikes. Should the PCs retrieve the scythe and 
successfully hit Illcayna with it, the Strike deals 
an additional 2d6 persistent bleed damage. Each 
time Illcayna takes bleed damage from this effect, 
each undead creature within 60 feet (even undead 
summoned by Illcayna) must succeed at a DC 27 Will 
save or spend its next turn attacking only Illcayna. 
Illcayna’s share blessing ability doesn’t trigger if she 
is destroyed this way. As she is once again devoured, 
Illcayna wordlessly cries, her tears drawn to the pool.
Treasure: The PCs receive all items under Illcayna’s 
item entry, including Reaper’s Sigh and the Bleeding 
Heart of Urgathoa, which reverts to a greater symbol 
of conflict and a blood-red lump of warshard.
Reward: The PCs gain 5 Reputation Points for 
defeating the Wight Mother of Isger, stopping her curse, 
and ending the undead scourge she brought about.
Boon of the Isgeri Spirits: The first time the PCs 
take a long rest after their battle with Illcayna, they 
collectively experience a dream. A swarm of flies 
washes over a frozen land like snowflakes, while 
a stag stands opposite on lush grounds. A voice in 
their heads, booming yet soothing, asks which they 
choose. Those who once protected these lands made 
their choices. What would those protecting the lands 
now choose?
If the PCs pick the stag and its warm spring, they 
wake to find clawed bracers by their side. If they 
pick the flies and its desolate winter, they receive a 
runestone with a decaying rune instead. Refusing 
to pick or being split in opinion results in the PCs 
being jolted out of the dream to find a standard-grade 
duskwood shield.
Concluding the Chapter
The PCs are hailed as heroes by the Hellbreakers and 
their army for defeating Illcayna in combat. Maire 
spreads tales about the party’s exploits, giving them 
titles like “Spring’s Herald” or “Wight Mother’s Bane.” 
She takes care to leave out identifying details; the PCs 
can encourage or discourage her or maybe even get a 
say on their epithet. 
With this triumph, the Hellbreakers have cemented 
their place not only in Isger’s politics, but also the 
nation’s history. What’s not likely going to be recorded 
in the books is the whereabouts of the warshard 
Illcayna had. The Hellbreakers’ leadership decides to 
keep it safe in their headquarters.
The Hellbreakers also decide it best to collapse 
Urgathoa’s temple to hide the grotto’s entrance from 
those with ill intent. The PCs have a chance to study it 
fully beforehand and can always access it from above 
with flight if necessary. There’s also a bottle of shared 
memories among Illcayna’s possessions, which hints at 
the last Wonder of the Seasons, the wintry Woe. The 
mystery of Woe is outside the scope of this adventure, 
however, and is best explored after the PCs have 
liberated Isger.

===== Page 137 =====
136
In traveling throughout the country and bolstering 
the populace to join their rebellion, the Hellbreakers 
League has exposed itself—never have its members 
and leadership been so widely known. With many 
who joined the League eager to share stories of their 
contribution, there’s bound to be an absent mind or slip 
of a tongue.
Aided by powerful friends, Caeto carefully tracked 
down the League’s leadership to Saringallow. The fear 
of being watched seemed almost forgotten in the high of 
victory and the frenzy of returning to normalcy. Caeto 
allowed that complacency to grow, even fueling it by 
acting like he was cowed. In reality, the Hellknight was 
preparing a strike force, one pointed at the very heart of 
the rebel organization and waiting to stab.
Opportunity arrived on the sacred Day of Bones, a 
Pharasmin holiday where the community comes together 
to pay respects to the recent dead. As the first of such 
major holidays after the undead scourge, this Day of 
Bones is particularly significant, serving as a milestone in 
both resetting the pace of peace and acknowledging those 
who lost their lives. Though many were buried in their 
home settlements, the Hellbreakers agreed that honoring 
those who died shouldn’t be bound by the whereabouts 
of the living, and the organization’s leadership promised 
to observe the holiday together in Saringallow.
In this moment of vulnerability, Caeto’s forces struck. 
At noon on the Day of Bones, when the Hellbreakers 
had agreed to assemble, Hellknights and Chelaxian 
forces seized Saringallow’s entries and exits and 
searched for dissidents. On the top of their list were 
the Riotmongers and the PCs. As chaos descended 
in the town, a mile away on the Conerica River, the 
PCs are helping to upgrade the Witchfire for potential 
Chapter 8:
Springing Sarini Manor

===== Page 138 =====
137
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
future battles and, as a result, are late in returning to 
Saringallow. The party doesn’t realize it yet, but this 
tardiness is about to become one of the most fortuitous 
moments of their lives.
Day of Broken Bones
The PCs are just returning to Saringallow when 
Cole Acton and “Rabbit” Dryden, two of the local 
Hellbreakers, run up in a panic when the PCs have 
properly docked.
“You’ve got to go!” Rabbit shouts, frantically looking 
backward. “They’re looking for you! They’ve taken everyone! 
Hellknights—the Hellknights are here!”
DESPERATE ESCAPE	
CHASE 8
Escaping Caeto’s forces is played out as a chase using the 
chase subsystem (GM Core 192). Each obstacle lasts 1 
round, meaning the PCs can only attempt to overcome 
them once. The Penalty entry in each obstacle happens 
automatically. Many obstacles ask the PCs to make a 
hard choice and choose an NPC to rescue. While the 
captured NPCs will get roughed up, make it obvious 
that the enemies want to capture the Hellbreakers alive. 
Should a PC reach 0 Hit Points during the chase, they 
automatically stabilize, and the GM can assume any 
unconscious PCs are carried onto the next obstacle by a 
party member, NPC, or a sympathetic citizen.
HELL ON THE DOCKS	
OBSTACLE 8
Chase Points 1; Overcome DC 24 Acrobatics or Athletics to 
quickly flee the ship, DC 29 Deception to convince the 
Hellknights there are no Hellbreakers at the docks, or DC 
26 Stealth to Hide
Hellknights sweep through the Saringallow docks, 
demanding to know which boat is the Witchfire. There isn’t 
time to hoist the anchor and escape via river.
Penalty Cole and Rabbit are captured trying to distract the 
Hellknights away from the PCs.
SMOKING BEACON	
OBSTACLE 8
Chase Points 2; Overcome DC 29 Athletics to break open 
a window or door and let the smoke disperse, DC 24 
Cooking Lore or Crafting to throw food to distract the 
hell hounds, or DC 26 Perception or Survival to navigate 
through the smoke
Hell hounds charge in and out of the Beacon Candles 
workshop, filling it with noxious smoke as Gram and Xerra 
help patrons escape.
Penalty The PCs take 5d6 fire damage from smoke 
inhalation. They can only rescue one Hellbreaker between 
Gram or Xerra; the other is captured by enemies.
CLAWS FROM THE SKY	
OBSTACLE 8
Chase Points 3; Overcome DC 26 Deception to distract the 
fiends, DC 24 Devil Lore, Fiend Lore, or Religion to repel the 
fiends, or DC 29 Intimidation to scare them into backing off
The Merchant’s Square is overrun by a flying erinys targeting 
Maire and Rhokrag.
Penalty The PCs take 3d6 bludgeoning damage and 
2d6 poison damage. They can only rescue one of the 
Hellbreakers here. The one they don’t pick is grabbed by 
the erinys and captured.
GETAWAY VEHICLE	
OBSTACLE 8
Chase Points 2; Overcome DC 29 Athletics to run ahead 
and push people to the side, DC 27 Diplomacy or DC 26 
Intimidation to command the crowd, or DC 24 Driving 
Lore or Nature to steer
A cart has been commandeered for a quick escape, but the 
streets are flooded with panicked crowds.
Penalty A Hellknight attempts to stop the cart. Either one 
of the rescued Hellbreakers sacrifices themself, or the 
CHAPTER TIMELINE
Below are the proposed dates of events and 
deadlines featured in this chapter. GMs are 
welcome to make adjustments. For this month, 
consider the impact of holidays, such as the vernal 
equinox.
PHARAST 4726 ar
5th: Day of Bones. Caeto commands a strike force 
to capture Saringallow and the Hellbreakers.
6th: Reinforcements arrive to secure Saringallow. 
Sephone Haugini secures Sarini Manor.
10th: Hellbreakers make plans to capture Sarini 
Manor. Excavations at Sarini Manor begin.
11th: PCs leave Highfort for sympathetic ranch at 
midnight.
12th: PCs arrive at Vulaunex Ranch in the early 
hours. Caeto leaves for Cheliax. Day 1 of 
infiltration.
14th: Basement of Sarini Manor excavated. 
Sephone begins researching the excavated 
basement.
16th: Sephone leaves the manor for 1 day to assist 
in the resurrection of Viro.
18th: Proposed deadline for capturing Sarini 
Manor.
19th: Date Caeto intended to return. He’s delayed 
by a combination of bad luck and sabotage.
20th: Vernal equinox. Day of Wrath in Cheliax.

===== Page 139 =====
138
PCs can body check the Hellknight. Choosing the latter 
results in the PCs taking 5d6 bludgeoning damage 
each and increases the next obstacle’s DC by 1.
AT THE CROSSROADS	
OBSTACLE 8
Chase Points 3; Overcome DC 24 Arcana or Occultism 
to interfere with the spellcasting, DC 29 Deception or 
Stealth to obscure the Riotmongers’ retreat, or DC 26 
Intimidation to fluster the mages into making errors
In the Triangle Crossroads, battle mages bear down on 
the Riotmongers. Phoebe and Alceo both shout to save 
the other; a choice must be made.
Penalty The PCs fail to get to either of the Riotmongers, 
and both Alceo and Phoebe are captured.
Special If the PCs have rescued at least two Hellbreaker 
NPCs, two of the NPCs can sacrifice themselves to let 
the PCs get one Riotmonger to safety. The PCs are 
limited to one Riotmonger.
GATES YET CLOSED	
OBSTACLE 8
Chase Points 1; Overcome DC 29 Athletics to lift the gate 
door, DC 24 Crafting, Engineering Lore, or Thievery to 
work the crank of the gate door, or DC 26 Driving 
Lore or Nature to urge Quoster’s horse to kick the gate 
open
Quoster drives the cart to Saringallow’s barracks toward 
the closed and unmanned Noble Folly’s gate.
Penalty The PCs are forced to leave Quoster’s cart and 
use the wicket. The DC of the next obstacle increases 
by 2 as the party must escape on foot.
HIGHTAIL TO HIGHFORT	
OBSTACLE 8
Chase Points 2; Overcome DC 24 Survival or DC 26 
Nature or Perception to locate a shortcut
The trek to Highfort is winding and confusing due to the 
chaos caused by enemies all around.
Penalty The PCs take longer to get to Highfort than 
expected, arriving there in 4 days instead of 2.
Special If there are Hellbreaker NPCs with the party, 
reduce the DC of this obstacle by 1 for each NPC.
Development: The Elidir Hellbreakers are relieved 
to see the PCs and any rescued NPCs arrive. Any 
PCs in need of medical attention are treated 
immediately. Currently, Highfort only knows that 
Saringallow has been seized and that all captured 
Hellbreakers seem to be alive. There are reports of 
forces scouring the rural areas for escapees, making 
travel high risk. No one has figured out how the 
headquarters was discovered and to what extent 
they’ve been exposed.
Jenvirick informs the PCs that she has sent for 
help, and the Eagle Knights are sending Ethran 
Howell to aid them. The Hellbreakers should take 
some mandatory downtime until they arrive. The PCs 
can use this downtime however they wish, so long as 
they remain in Highfort.
The PCs receive 100 gp as a stipend toward 
equipment. As the city of Logas remains an ally, 
the PCs can access common items up to their level, 
though delivery might take time. Quoster can also 
attempt to obtain uncommon resources for them 
with a flat DC 15 check.
Reward: The PCs receive 80 XP for completing the 
chase. If they escaped with four or more Hellbreaker 
NPCs free, they receive an additional 30 XP for the 
massive accomplishment. If a Riotmonger escaped, 
that Riotmonger grows more resolute, and the GM 
can add the elite template to the rescued Riotmonger 
from here on.
Picking Up the Pieces
Ethran Howell arrives in the afternoon of the 10th 
of Pharast, heavily disguised as a wandering druid. A 
meeting is called, during which Ethran and Jenvirick 
share the following intel.
•	 The day after Saringallow was seized, new forces 
moved in to secure the city. While most are loyal 
to Caeto, some Isgeri soldiers hold grudges 
over the inaction against the undead, a parallel 
to Isger’s neglect of the countryside during the 
Goblinblood Wars.
•	 A strict curfew has been enforced on Saringallow. 
Even merchants haven’t been able to enter the 
city, and those at the docks have only been 
allowed to briefly resupply under the watchful 
eye of Caeto’s forces.
•	 The captured Hellbreakers are still alive. Ethran 
suspects Caeto intends to interrogate them 
HANDLING LOSS
While the chase is meant to create a low point in 
the Adventure Path, GMs are free to modify the 
chase’s penalties as necessary for their table, as 
not everyone might stomach losing so many NPCs 
in a single moment. The PCs might wish to sacrifice 
themselves during the chase, which the GM can 
accept at their discretion. As the adventure doesn’t 
have room to cover the journey of any PCs who 
are captured, players should discuss with their GM 
on how best to handle the story going forward. 
The player can consider playing an NPC or a new 
character, so long as their level is appropriate.

===== Page 140 =====
139
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
for the location of those who escaped and the 
whereabouts of the warshard. Caeto is rumored 
to be leaving Saringallow on the 12th of Pharast 
to pick up a Chelaxian interrogator. 
Either the settlement of Misarias 
or Senara is his destination, 
meaning he’ll likely be back 
in a week’s time on the 19th. 
The Witchfire is being taken for 
the trip.
•	 Saringallow’s situation feels even 
bigger than Hellknight Hill; the 
Hellbreakers are going to need that 
army of theirs back if they want to 
reclaim the city.
Ethran and Jenvirick suggest that Caeto’s 
week of absence is a good time to make some 
countermoves. Operating out of Highfort is 
difficult due to distance, so Ethran suggests the 
Hellbreakers secure the infamous Sarini Manor to 
be their main base. Only hours away from the city, 
the manor would be an excellent command post to 
lead the army from.
MANOR MATTERS
The PCs can attempt to Recall Knowledge with a DC 
24 appropriate Lore or Society check to know that 
Sarini Manor was once the home of the noble house 
of Sarini. The Sarinis were found guilty of kidnapping 
and murdering many of their own servants’ children 
for fiendish sacrifices, and the noble family was 
subsequently lynched for their offense. Their surviving 
servants then founded Saringallow. The manor is also 
the source of the demon bile incident over a decade 
ago. While that corruption was cleared, no one has 
been back to inspect it.
Unfortunately, 
Jenvirick 
reports 
that 
after 
Saringallow was seized, Caeto allowed the diabolist 
Sephone Haugini (uptight female human diabolist 9) 
to claim the manor, reportedly for private research. As 
Sephone’s mission is secondary, Caeto provided her 
with security that’s sufficient but not impeccably tight. 
From Ethran’s assessment, an infiltration might be 
possible, though the exact method is to be determined.
Ethran says they have a place close to the manor 
for the PCs to work from. A sympathetic rancher has 
expressed that he’s willing to take the PCs in. If the 
PCs leave with Ethran by midnight (Pharast 10th 
going to 11th), they can get to the ranch by the early 
morning of the 12th. While the PCs undertake this 
mission, any Saringallow NPCs rescued will stay in 
Highfort to gather the army in secret.
VULAUNEX RANCH
After two days and nights of floating down the Clover 
Stream, Ethran takes the PCs to meet a rancher with 
a mild resemblance to Caeto. The man, Fierdo 
Vulaunex (grizzled male human rancher 3), 
is in fact Caeto’s eldest brother. The ranch 
the PCs are hiding in is the Hellknight’s 
childhood home, which he left and never 
visited again. His family isn’t happy 
about the man Caeto has become, and 
while guilt is a motivator, Fierdo says the 
family is helping because the Hellbreakers 
are doing what’s right.
Meeting Fierdo is an opportunity for 
the PCs to learn more about who Caeto 
was before he became a Hellknight. 
More details on Caeto’s life can be found 
in his NPC entry on page 238. The PCs’ 
focus in this chapter remains on Sarini Manor 
otherwise.
Development: After the PCs settle down in one of 
the ranch’s dormitories and learn how to disguise 
themselves in both appearance and vocabulary as 
ranch hands and rovers here for the upcoming calving 
season, Sarevial arrives on Quoster’s cart, ready to 
pass the PCs and Ethran new intel so they can begin 
their infiltration. The infiltration of Sarini Manor 
uses the infiltration subsystem on pages 196–199 of 
GM Core.
Infiltration Day 1: An Ambush 
in the Dark
Sarevial reveals there are two groups headed toward 
Sarini Manor who’ll be camping near the ranch 
tonight: a unit of Isgeri infantry and a mercenary crew. 
Those at Sarini Manor likely haven’t met these new 
hires yet, so if the PCs successfully infiltrate, intercept, 
or replace one or both of the groups, they can gain free 
access to the manor.
Working to take over the manor from within over a 
few days is unlikely to alert those in Saringallow that 
something is wrong at the manor, and being part of 
a larger group would also help the PCs blend in. The 
party will also need to keep Lifebloom out of sight 
since it’s easily identifiable, though the other Wonders 
of the Seasons aren’t known to the Hellknights.
Between replacing or infiltrating the group or 
bribing and recruiting them, Ethran thinks it’s better 
for the Hellbreakers to choose the former because 
there’s no risk of betrayal. The choice is ultimately 
left up to the party, and Ethran reminds the PCs that 
no matter what happens, they should use nonlethal 
force. Killing will give Caeto ammunition to paint the 
 Fierdo

===== Page 141 =====
140
Hellbreakers as dangerous insurgents. For each non-
fey creature the PCs kill in this chapter, they lose 1 
Reputation Point unless stated otherwise.
Open Plans: The PCs have a lot of flexibility on 
how to handle the two groups, from their approach 
to how many enemies they want to take out. The 
two units are camped in clearings that are adjacent 
to each other, separated by a forest trail. Relations 
between the two groups are strained after several 
poor interactions between them on the trip from 
Elidir to Saringallow.
Whatever the plan is, the PCs should complete it 
within the next 24 hours, as the groups are scheduled 
to report to Sephone after this time passes. With a 
day to prepare and act, the PCs can spy on the groups 
to gather information and plan out their strategies. 
While they only need to replace or infiltrate one 
group, they should think of strategies to handle the 
other who might suspect something is wrong. Having 
a group dismissed is a boon in itself since it’ll thin out 
the number of enemies during the secret takeover of 
Sarini Manor.
ISGERI INFANTRY	
MODERATE 8
The tents in the northern clearing are uniform and 
orderly, with guards regularly patrolling both within 
the camp as well as on the periphery. This group of 
Isgeri infantry is led by Nixa Volsetti (loyal female 
human captain 7), a soldier native to Saringallow. 
After 10 years in the military, Nixa has seen for 
herself how the army has failed the people of Isger 
time and again due to the ineptitude and willful 
inaction of the ruling elites, and she’s desperate 
for reform. Whatever hope she had in Caeto’s 
decisiveness quickly soured when he ordered the 
army to ignore the undead uprising. Her resentment 
only increased with the seizure of Saringallow and 
Caeto’s willingness to work with fiends. Many of her 
soldiers share this sentiment and openly discuss their 
frustrations as they walk about the camp.
The PCs can easily overhear these conversations 
without a check while spying on the soldiers. Despite 
rumors of disgruntled fey, the soldiers don’t care to 
keep their voices down, believing their captain Nixa 
knows tricks to pacify the fey if issues arise. A PC 
AN AMBUSH IN THE DARK
AN AMBUSH IN THE DARK
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 142 =====
141
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
can attempt a DC 24 Isger Lore or DC 26 Society 
check to Recall Knowledge to recognize Nixa’s name 
as one of the youths caught up in the demon bile 
incident. It’s possible they might have heard about 
her from conversations with residents in Saringallow, 
particularly her cousin Nolaria (see the Saringallow 
gazetteer starting on page 200).
Creatures: Nixa’s soldiers consist of two line 
infantries, each led by a standard bearer. During the 
day, Nixa walks out in the open among her soldiers. 
Past evening, she rests in her circular command tent. 
If the PCs attack the mercenaries without letting Nixa 
or her soldiers know, they assume it to be a drunken 
brawl until the mercenaries come to them for aid. The 
soldiers do their best to put themselves between Nixa 
and any enemies, though Nixa quickly moves up to 
Strike with her longsword against those who 
attack her soldiers. If any of her soldiers, 
singular or troop, fall below 25 Hit Points, 
Nixa surrenders since she doesn’t want 
her soldiers killed. Her soldiers likewise 
surrender if Nixa is brought below 30 
Hit Points, begging their captain to be 
spared.
If the PCs capture Nixa and 
her soldiers without agreeing 
to an alliance, they’ll be held 
in 
Highfort. 
Nixa 
doesn’t 
react well to this outcome, 
as Highfort is where she was 
kept prisoner during the demon 
bile incident in Gallows of Madness. 
If treated as captives, she and her army 
refuse to associate with the Hellbreakers afterward.
STANDARD BEARERS (2)	
CREATURE 4
Pathfinder NPC Core 89
Initiative Perception +12
ISGERI ARMY CONTINGENTS (2)	
CREATURE 5
Weak line infantry (Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 90)
Initiative Perception +11
NIXA VOLSETTI	
CREATURE 7
Elite captain of the guard (Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 115)
Initiative Perception +17
Languages Common, Goblin
Sincere Alliance: As previously mentioned, Nixa 
doesn’t like her standing orders. If the PCs reveal their 
intention to liberate Saringallow, she’s inclined to 
assist by allowing them to pretend they’re part of her 
troop. Likewise, if the PCs replace the mercenaries, 
Nixa would tell her soldiers to ignore what the PCs 
are up to if she learns of their reasoning.
If the PCs ask Nixa to take her army away, 
she can be persuaded with three successful 
DC 26 Diplomacy, Isger Lore, or Warfare 
Lore checks. If the PCs succeed, she sends 
Sephone an excuse about a nearby farm 
needing help with a sportlebore 
infestation. On failure, Nixa 
says she understands the 
PCs’ desire, but she and her 
soldiers have orders and 
duties to fulfill. The party 
is still welcome to become 
“last-minute conscripts.”
Impact on Infiltration: 
If Nixa and her army 
don’t reach Sarini Manor 
and didn’t send an explanation for their absence (or 
the PCs didn’t fabricate one for her), the PCs gain 3 
Awareness Points (AP) toward their infiltration. The 
same applies if the PCs fight but then retreat from this 
encounter. If Nixa and her army manage to detect and 
notice the PCs, but no combat nor further interaction 
took place, the PCs only gain 2 AP. Infiltrating the 
manor by replacing the Isgeri army grants the PCs 
1 Edge Point (EP), while infiltrating the army grants 
the PCs 3 EP. Sending the troops away decreases the 
HP of all troop creatures at the manor by the level 
of the troop.
Reward: The PCs receive full XP for the encounter 
if they resolve it without combat. For PCs who form 
an alliance with Nixa or convinced her to leave, she 
and her soldiers return in Chapter 9. While Nixa 
retains her statistics from this chapter, her soldiers 
become two heavy cavalries (NPC Core 92).
Treasure: If the PCs ally with Nixa, she gives them 
a lesser reinforcing rune, two greater smoke balls, 
and a swift block cabochon. If the PCs need to disguise 
OLDER AND WISER
Nixa and Nolaria are returnees from the Gallows 
of Madness Pathfinder adventure module, as are 
several NPCs in the Saringallow gazetteer. After 
what she went through, Nixa educated herself 
about outsiders such as fiends and fey, which 
helped her rise in the ranks in the army. She’s 
popular among her soldiers for her down-to-earth 
nature, as many of them also come from rural 
regions of Isger.
Nixa

===== Page 143 =====
142
themselves as Isgeri infantry, she also has spare gear 
available.
THE CAUSTIC AND CAUTIOUS	
MODERATE 8
In comparison to the other contingent, the southern 
clearing is disorganized. These mercenaries came 
together at the last minute for this assignment, so they 
don’t work very well together nor make great company. 
Some are Isgeri Slayers, while the rest used to work for the 
unscrupulous Azri family. The mercenaries spend their 
time huddled by the fire, playing games, and drinking. 
Most keep their voices low out of fear of offending the 
fey rumored to be in the region. Any PCs who succeeds 
at a DC 26 Perception check can hear them share gossip 
about the kinds of fey appearing in Sarini Manor.
Creatures: What the mercenary band lacks in 
coordination, they make up for in numbers. If attacked 
outright, those hurt raise the alarm. Mercenaries swarm 
out into a single troop that does its best to keep the PCs 
in their squares. The drill sergeant leading them stay in 
the distance, picking off targets with ranged attacks. 
Both flee and seek help from the Isgeri infantry when 
they fall below 30 Hit Points.
If the Isgeri army is attacked, the mercenaries assume 
they were attacked by fey for failing to keep their voices 
down. They only check on the camp once things fall 
quiet again, though they’re doing so more to scavenge 
for valuables than to help. Like the Isgeri army, if the 
PCs capture the mercenary band and commander, 
they’re held at Highfort.
WEAK MERCENARY BAND	
CREATURE 8
Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 84
Initiative Perception +15
DRILL SERGEANT	
CREATURE 8
Pathfinder NPC Core 92
Initiative Perception +16
Fear and Greed: The PCs can exploit the band’s fear 
or greed. If the PCs succeed at three DC 26 Deception, 
Fey Lore, Nature, or Stealth checks, they make the band 
and sergeant flee from a nonexistent fey attack. As for 
greed, if the PCs tempt them with 1,000 gp or more 
or succeed at three DC 28 Deception, Diplomacy, or 
Intimidation checks, the PCs can join as last-second 
recruits or get the troop and drill sergeant to leave. 
The successes between scaring and persuading the 
mercenaries can be counted together.
Impact on Infiltration: Take note that an alliance 
with the mercenaries is perilous and might make some 
complications more difficult during infiltration. That 
said, the mercenaries can help sow fear about the fey in 
Sarini Manor, making all troops frightened 1 whenever 
they can observe a fey.
If any creatures from this encounter manage to 
flee, and the PCs didn’t disguise themselves, the PCs 
gain 3 AP. On the other hand, if the PCs kept their 
identities concealed, most assume the mercenaries ran 
out of cowardice. Being detected but having no further 
interactions with this group has no impact, as the mercs 
think it was just a trick of the eye by fey magic. If the 
PCs replace or infiltrate the mercenaries, they gain 2 
EP. Sending the mercenary band and sergeant away 
decreases the HP of all troop creatures at the manor by 
the level of the troop.
Reward: If the PCs resolve this encounter without 
combat, they receive full XP for it. Unlike Nixa and the 
Isgeri army, neither the mercenary band nor the drill 
sergeant can be recruited. They simply can’t be trusted.
Treasure: If the PCs Search the mercenary camp, 
they find a pouch that holds 600 gp in the sergeant’s 
tent, including a note within mentioning these are the 
mercenary’s wages.
DISHONORABLY DISMISSED
Should the PCs replace or ally with one group and 
arrive at the manor with the other, they can attempt to 
convince Sephone to dismiss the other with prejudice. 
This encounter uses the Victory Point system (GM 
AWARENESS POINTS
Anytime the PCs roll a critical failure on a 
skill check during their infiltration, they gain 1 
Awareness Point. If the roll was for a check under 
a complication entry, they gain 2 Awareness 
Points instead. The PCs can get a maximum of 25 
Awareness Points. Upon reaching this threshold, 
infiltration immediately ends. The party is caught 
and thrown into the stables in the southwest 
corner of the manor grounds. Ethran arrives with 
some Hellbreakers (use the statistics of a line 
infantry [Pathfinder NPC Core 90]) within the hour 
to free the PCs, after which they must deal with 
the security and researchers via combat.
VERSATILE EDGE POINTS
While Edge Points are usually used to succeed at a 
failed roll against an obstacle or complication, for 
this chapter they can be expended to improve the 
result of any failed skill check to a success, providing 
the PC attempted the check while on Sarini Manor 
grounds and they’re outside of combat.

===== Page 144 =====
143
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Core 184). The PCs are given 4 rounds to obtain 8 
Victory Points. The PCs must succeed at a DC 26 
Deception or Diplomacy check to Make an Impression 
on Sephone, a DC 28 Intimidation check to Coerce 
their opponent (the drill sergeant or Nixa) and push 
back their opponent’s claims, or a DC 24 Warfare Lore 
check to demonstrate they’re capable guards who can 
protect the manor. You can accept other skill checks 
and reasoning at your discretion.
If the PCs obtain 8 or more Victory Points, Sephone 
dismisses the opposing group’s service and welcomes 
the PCs into the fold. Award the PCs any XP they 
would’ve gotten if they defeated the opposition. If 
the PCs obtained 1 to 7 Victory Points, both groups 
stay. If the PCs ended up with 0 or less Victory Points, 
Sephone allows both groups to stay, but the PCs gain 
2 AP.
Reward: If the PCs gain access to Sarini Manor 
through either of the two groups they can ambush, 
they gain an additional 30 XP, even if the other group 
wasn’t fired. They also receive a tour as part of their 
orientation as security of Sarini Manor. The PCs learn 
the basic functions of areas O1 to O4, and O7 to O13.
IN CASE OF FAILURE…
If the PCs end up failing both encounters, they can get 
hired as independent contractors by Sephone, who’s 
short on hands. The PCs must spend 8 hours each day 
taking the Earn Income downtime activity and will 
need to explore the manor to know what each room 
does. On the other hand, they do get a room of their 
own (area O9) and have more flexibility in where and 
when they go. You should run the rest of this chapter 
more as a dungeon crawl if the PCs go this route. The 
same applies if the PCs choose Stealth to sneak in and 
out through area O5.
Infiltration Day 2: Joining the 
Rotation
The second day of infiltration is dedicated to feeling 
out the exact number of enemies and their whereabouts 
over the course of a day. The PCs have 6 rounds to 
obtain as many Victory Points as possible. Each round, 
they can attempt a DC 22 Perception check to Seek, a 
DC 24 Warfare Lore check to Investigate, or a DC 26 
Diplomacy or Deception check to Gather Information. 
Once they’ve reached 6 Victory Points, the PCs can 
also attempt a DC 24 Isger Lore or Nature check to 
learn more about the fey that was here before Sephone 
took over. Any time the PCs critically fail a check, they 
gain 1 Awareness Point.
0 Victory Points: The lighting conditions for the 
outdoors depend on the time of day (bright for day, 
dark for night), while the interior is generally well lit 
except when an area isn’t in use. The soldiers try to 
avoid having dim light, as that’s the optimal lighting 
conditions for fey. Most doors, except those to area 
O10, are poor in quality.
2 Victory Points: There are three shifts per day, 
named morning (8 a.m. to 4 p.m.), afternoon (4 p.m. 
to midnight) and night shift (midnight to 8 a.m.). 
Most guards have only a single work shift a day. They 
generally eat before and after work. Most return after 
a shift to sleep, though it’s not unknown for slackers to 
return late and end up needing an extra shift off before 
they work again.
4 Victory Points: The PCs learn that during each 
shift, there’s one line infantry and one elite watch 
officer guarding areas O3 and O4, and another line 
infantry and watch officer guarding areas O11 and the 
corridor on the second floor. A draconic fumecrux and 
a watchmage guard the exterior at the front entrance 
and in the garden (area O7). The dormitory for the 
troops is beyond the map. If necessary, the GM can 
use the ambush site on page 140 to represent the 
encampment. The GM should keep these creatures 
visible on the map for the PCs at all times.
6 Victory Points: Sephone has a private research team 
of two kylixes, three zealots of Asmodeus, and two 
demonologists (NPC Core 100). These researchers are 
in the library (area O1) during the day and afternoon 
shifts and in their sleeping quarters (area O8) at night. 
Every other day on the even dates, Sephone calls half 
of the team (one of each NPC type) to meet with her in 
area O10 during the afternoon shift. The GM should 
keep these creatures visible on the map for the PCs at 
all times.
8 Victory Points: There’s quite a bit of dangerous 
flora around. The PCs learn about the poisonous 
plants in area O7 and breathless thickets in area O13. 
They also learn that Sephone has put up a bounty for 
anyone willing to do pruning.
10 Victory Points: Some fey seized Sarini Manor 
shortly after Illcayna’s death, calling it an “overdue 
payment.” Bitter and vengeful after Sephone drove 
them off, these fey might make good allies. That said, 
the Hellbreakers will likely need to negotiate with 
the fey too… or send them back to the First World 
permanently.
12 Victory Points: The ancient Kellid tribes used 
to commune with the fey. The fey probably don’t 
understand that the tributes stopped with the tribes’ 
extinction. While fey such as the empress katroome, 
draxies, and pixies are unfriendly but likely to let the 
PCs explain or retreat, the redcaps and elananxes are 
hostile and attack on sight.

===== Page 145 =====
144
14 Victory Points: The redcaps are under the tyrannical 
rule of a pukwudgie named Rustflesh. If the PCs cured 
the redcaps of red drip in Chapter 7, the redcaps and 
elananxes are unfriendly but willing to talk. Otherwise, 
befriending the redcaps might make them willing allies, 
but it’ll likely require defeating Rustflesh.
KYLIXES (2)	
CREATURE 4
Page 226
Initiative Perception +11
ELITE WATCH OFFICERS (2)	
CREATURE 4
Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 113
Initiative Perception +10 (+11 to Sense Motive)
ZEALOTS OF ASMODEUS (3)	
CREATURE 4
Pathfinder NPC Core 31
Initiative Perception +9
WATCHMAGE	
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder NPC Core 115
Initiative Perception +15
LINE INFANTRY (2)	
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder NPC Core 90
Initiative Perception +13
DEMONOLOGISTS (2)	
CREATURE 7
Pathfinder NPC Core 100
Initiative Perception +15
DRACONIC FUMECRUX	
CREATURE 9
Page 229
Initiative Perception +18
Reward: For the creatures listed above, reward XP 
when a creature is permanently removed from the map.
Treasure: Every time the PCs permanently remove 
a troop, the Hellbreakers prepare a moderate elixir 
of life. For every NPC removed, the PCs receive a 
common consumable of level 8 or less. If the NPC 
removed is a watchmage or demonologist, the rarity 
can be uncommon. The PCs must pick up their reward 
at Vulaunex Ranch, which is an hour’s trek from Sarini 
Manor.
CREATURE MANAGEMENT
For easier management, the GMs should use the same 
creature for the security and staff across the different 
shifts. Troops don’t recover Hit Points naturally as time 
progress, though they can still be healed by items and 
spells during the shift. The PCs are limited to bringing 
troop creatures to the next Hit Point threshold on 
O1
O1
O2
O2
O3
O3
O5
O5
O6
O6
O4
O4
O7
O7
SARINI MANOR FIRST FLOOR
SARINI MANOR FIRST FLOOR
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 146 =====
145
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
each shift. Once the troop falls below the threshold, it’s 
removed from the map until the next shift begins. At 0 
Hit Points, the troop is removed permanently. The Hit 
Point threshold and reduction in size helps represent 
soldiers being redistributed to cover shifts and how 
some areas become neglected from reduced numbers.
For the watchmage and watch officers, these NPCs 
return to full Hit Points between shifts. Despite this, 
the PCs need to defeat or capture them only once on 
any shift to remove the creature permanently from 
the map. Rumor of their colleague’s disappearance 
or misfortune makes the others resign or desert their 
post. The same applies to the research team.
If a troop loses their commander NPC, they become 
frightened 1. If two or more researchers go missing 
or are defeated, the other research staff become 
frightened 1. Any point a creature reaches frightened 
4, it flees from the area and manor altogether; the PCs 
can consider the creature permanently defeated and 
remove it from the map.
Day 3 to Day 6: Shift by Shift
The third day begins with a commotion in the garden; 
the excavation has finally uncovered the rumored 
corrupted basement. The guards complain that with 
Sephone’s habit of sleeping in the morning, some poor 
sods are going to be up in the night as prime targets 
for the fey to attack. The PCs can learn where in the 
manor fey have been spotted and at what times if 
there’s a restriction.
From this day onward, the PCs can decide what they 
wish to do shift by shift. The obstacle in each room 
is generally the creatures in it. Each area also details 
if there are opportunities or complications and the 
requirements or trigger for them, such as time of day. 
The PCs can visit up to three areas per shift without 
drawing attention. For each area after the third, the 
party gains 1 AP.
Focus by Day: For easier encounter management, 
you can have the PCs focus on befriending or 
removing the fey on Day 3 (areas O1, O6, O9, and 
O12), seeking out opportunities and learning about 
complications in advance on Day 4 (areas O1, O7, O8, 
and O10 in particular), then taking out the enemies on 
Days 5 and 6. The PCs should know that the night of 
the 18th of Pharast (or Day 7 of their infiltration) is 
when the Hellbreakers must take the manor, by force 
if necessary.
O1. LIBRARY	
MODERATE 8	
As Saringallow took away most books of value, there 
remained a lot of empty shelves for Sephone to fill 
with her own collection. Any PC who succeeds at a 
DC 26 Arcana or Religion check to Recall Knowledge 
recognizes that most of her collection is about 
teleportation, conjurations, summoning, and Hell. In 
the day and afternoon, the room is kept brightly lit. 
At night, all fires are put out, though the visiting fey 
bring a small lamp that makes it dim light instead.
Creatures: During the morning and afternoon 
shifts, Sephone’s research team gathers here. Every 
other day on odd dates, Sephone calls half of the 
team (one of each NPC type) to report to her in area 
O10 during the afternoon shift. At night, draxies and 
pixies appear, discussing how best to evict the humans. 
If the PCs express that they also want to remove the 
people here, the fey’s attitude automatically becomes 
indifferent, and they can be further influenced from 
there. If they become helpful, the PCs can convince 
them to help with the opportunity here. Evicting the 
researchers from this room is enough for these fey 
to consider any past debts paid, and they become 
willing to help the PCs tackle any enemy on the first 
floor. They refuse to touch the katroome in area O6 
and don’t go upstairs since that’s redcap territory.
ELITE DRAXIES (4)	
CREATURE 4
Pathfinder Monster Core 6, 322
Initiative Perception +10
PIXIES (4)	
CREATURE 4
Pathfinder Monster Core 323
Initiative Perception +12
Opportunity: It isn’t difficult to make one of the 
ancient shelves topple. Setting up this trap requires the 
PCs to succeed at three DC 26 Crafting, Engineering 
Lore, or Thievery checks. If there are researchers in 
the room, the PCs would need to Hide to conceal their 
sabotage. There’s also the option of pushing the shelf 
over, which only requires a successful DC 22 Athletics 
check. A creature or creatures targeted by the bookshelf 
or who trigger the trap must attempt a Reflex save 
XP REWARD
The XP value based on creature level for level 8 
PCs are below.
Creature 4: 10 XP
Creature 5: 15 XP
Creature 6: 20 XP
Creature 7: 30 XP
Creature 8: 40 XP
Creature 9: 60 XP

===== Page 147 =====
146
against the DC of the skill the PCs used to set up the trap. 
On a failure, they take 4d10+22 bludgeoning damage 
and become trapped beneath the bookshelf. They 
must Escape against the DC of the trap. Each round 
the creature remains stuck under the bookshelf, they 
take another 3d10 bludgeoning damage at the end of 
their turn. The damage is automatically nonlethal. This 
trap can be used twice before Sephone has the shelves 
reinforced; if the PCs befriended the fey in this area, 
they can use this trap two more times after. Sephone 
then closes off the room and moves the researchers to 
area O2. Setting up the traps or successfully pushing 
over a shelf gives the PCs 1 EP per trap.
If the PCs critically fail their check to set up the 
contraption, they must immediately save against the 
trap themselves. They also gain 2 AP the first time this 
occurs and 4 AP if it happens a second time.
Treasure: An envisioning aeon stone and a 5th-rank 
scroll of banishment rest on the table.
O2. MESS HALL
This room, once meant for recreation, has been 
converted to a dining room for staff and security to have 
their meals. The fireplace is used as the stove. There’s 
at least a couple of guards posted in this room at all 
times, though they are usually slacking off and take a -2 
circumstance penalty to their Perception checks.
Complication: If the PCs have 5 or more AP, the 
watch officer leading the troop on the first floor 
guards this area themselves. They’re quick to call for 
assistance from any of the nearby rooms if attacked.
Opportunity: There’s usually a stockpile of 20 
or so minor elixirs of life (Player Core 2 288) here, 
replenished daily. If the PCs hide, take, or steal the 
entire stash twice, the privilege is withdrawn, and all 
of Sephone’s staff and security become permanently 
drained 2. The PCs gain 1 EP.
O3. BALLROOM
The east half of this ballroom has collapsed and is 
mostly covered in rubble, except for a corridor that’s 
accessible over a 3-foot-tall railing. The area is brightly 
lit by both standing torches and the fireplace, though 
it’s not unusual for the fey to put these fires out to 
spook the soldiers.
The rubble reaches 10 feet high and requires a 
successful DC 26 Athletics check to Climb. The PCs 
can reach area O6 by succeeding at this check to Climb 
over the rubble in the southeast. Doing so attracts the 
attention of the troops guarding this area. If the PCs 
haven’t allied with the Isgeri army or mercenaries, 
climbing the rubble in view of the troops increases 
their AP by 5 if the PCs are observed climbing.
The troops guarding the first floor are mostly 
concentrated here. They pay attention to what’s going 
on in area O4 but ignore noises from areas O5 or O6 
unless they’re absolutely certain an ally (the PCs count 
if they’ve infiltrated as hired hands) is calling for help.
Complication or Opportunity: Every time the PCs 
reach 10 AP and every 5 points above 10, all troops 
are gathered here to be searched. If the PCs are hiding 
among the troops, they must succeed at a DC 26 
Deception, Diplomacy, or Thievery check to conceal 
suspicious items and keep up their disguise. The PCs 
can also attempt a DC 28 Stealth check to sneak out of 
the search. If they’re allied with Nixa’s army, the DC 
decreases by 5. If they’re allied with the mercenaries, 
the DC increases by 5. The search lasts an entire shift, 
which gives the PCs 1 EP each if they evade, pass, or 
otherwise escape inspection. This EP expires at the end 
of the next shift.
O4. ENTRANCE
What was once a beautiful sitting room is now armed 
to the teeth like the interior of a guard’s tower. At least 
a third of the guards on the first floor of the manor 
are situated here. The watch officer leading the line 
infantry usually passes time in the cloak room off to 
the left, unless the PCs have 5 or more AP (area O2).
Treasure: Someone left a greater devilwing badge 
(page 211) in the cloak room.
O5. FORGOTTEN BEDROOM
This dark bedroom full of moss used to be a guest 
bedroom on the second floor. It survived the fall 
relatively intact and now rests on the first floor. Only 
the windows were shattered. 
This room is a security blind spot. So long as the 
PCs successfully Hide from the troops in the garden 
(area O7), they can Sneak into this room by succeeding 
at a DC 22 Athletics check to Climb on the outside. 
The PCs can even take a long rest here so long as they 
make no noise and stay in the dark.
O6. A FEY’S THRONE 	
TRIVIAL 8
The only way to enter into this unlit area of the manor 
is by climbing over the rubble from area O3. While the 
dining room remains relatively intact, the breakfast 
room and pantry have been crushed by the study 
above. The alchemy set that used to be in the room 
is in shambles. The floors creak when stepped on, 
imposing a –4 circumstance penalty to Stealth checks 
to Hide, Sneak, and conduct other similar activities.
Creature: An empress katroome by the name of 
Spring’s Crown (haughty agender empress katroome 
8) has taken the study portion of the room as its

===== Page 148 =====
147
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
“throne room.” This magical beast is an advanced 
form of the caterpillar-shaped katroome, usually the 
result of significant exposure to primal ley lines or the 
First World. Unlike normal katroomes, an empress 
katroome is a fey creature.
Like many of its kind, Spring’s Crown believes 
itself to be the monarch of its surroundings—Sarini 
Manor, in this case. Though none of the fey here obeys 
its commands, it refers to them as its adoring subject 
anyway. The other fey avoid the katroome because in 
addition to its pacifying aura, Spring’s Crown is too 
condescending to stand.
If a creature enters the study area, Spring’s Crown 
demands the creature to bow, using command if 
needed. The katroome then demands the PCs to report 
why they haven’t paid their taxes. The undead are 
gone, so there are no excuses. If the PCs destroyed 
the breathless thickets in area O13, Spring’s Crown 
also demands restitution as it was looking forward to 
having a beautiful garden in the coming months.
If the PCs try to play dumb or otherwise refuse to 
treat the katroome with reverence, Spring’s Crown 
attacks, though only to drive the PCs out of area O6. 
If reduced to 30 Hit Points or fewer, the katroome uses 
translocate to flee and returns after a day fully healed. 
It remains arrogant but avoids attacking the party 
on subsequent encounters.
If the PCs successfully Make an Impression 
to make the katroome friendly, Spring’s 
Crown says it shall overlook the missed 
payments if the PCs evict the current 
“squatters” from the premises. 
In return, the PCs can become its 
knights, which would allow them 
to hold a property of their choosing… 
like the manor itself.
SPRING’S CROWN CREATURE 8
UNIQUE
SMALL
BEAST
FEY
Agender katroome squatter
Perception +13; darkvision
Languages Common, 
Fey, 
Goblin, Kellid
Skills Acrobatics +18, Athletics 
+12 (+14 to Climb), Arcana +15, 
Isger Lore +17, Nature +17, 
Stealth +18 (+22 in forests)
Str +2, Dex +6, Con +2, Int +4, Wis 
+3, Cha +3
AC 26; Fort +14, Ref +18, Will +13
HP 100, regeneration 10 (deactivated 
by cold iron); Weaknesses cold 
iron 10
Pacify Fey (aura, emotion, mental, primal) 40 feet. All 
creatures with the fey trait who enter or begin their turn 
in the aura must attempt a DC 26 Will save. Regardless 
of the result of the saving throw, the creature becomes 
immune to the aura for 1 day. On a failure, the creature 
can’t take hostile actions against the katroome.
Speed 25 feet, climb 20 feet, fly 25 feet
Melee [one-action] tail +16 (agile, finesse, reach 10 feet, versatile S), 
Damage 2d8+6 bludgeoning
Range [one-action] web +20 (range 25 feet), Effect enveloping web
Primal Innate Spells DC 26; 4th invisibility (self only), sleep, 
translocate (at will); 3rd one with stone, summon fey 
(×2); 2nd calm, charitable urge (Pathfinder Player Core 
2 242), web (Pathfinder Player Core 2 255); 1st charm, 
command (once per hour), dizzying colors; Cantrip (4th) 
detect magic
Enveloping Web The web of the empress katroome wraps 
creatures into a cocoon. The target becomes immobilized 
and slowed 1 while it’s enveloped in a cocoon (DC 26 to 
Escape). The web has Hardness 10 and 20 Hit Points. 
It has resistance 5 to bludgeoning and piercing and 
weakness 5 to slashing. At the end of the target’s turn, 
if it has yet to Escape from enveloping web, the web 
grows, increasing the slowed value by 1, to a maximum 
of slowed 3. The katroome can envelop up to three 
creatures at a time.
Glittering Scales [two-actions] Frequency once per 
minute; Effect The katroome flaps its wings 
of prismatic scales. All creatures within a 
30-foot cone takes 9d6 piercing damage 
with a DC 26 basic Reflex save. On a 
failure, the creature is also dazzled 
for 1 minute, or blinded on a critical 
failure.
Opportunity: A helpful Spring’s 
Crown can be a commander NPC in 
Chapter 9.
Treasure: If the PCs successfully make 
all fey in Sarini Manor friendly or better, 
Spring’s Crown rewards them with a resilient 
rune, calling it a medal of diplomatic 
honor. The PCs can also loot this rune 
if Spring’s Crown is defeated or killed.
O7. GARDEN AND EXCAVATION
The poison garden is overgrown and 
perilous to walk through with exposed skin. 
The excavation has dug 10 feet deep into the 
ground, reachable by sturdy ladders. A ring 
of torches surrounds the excavation. The 
only other lighting in the area are the torches 
the guards carry when they patrol.
Spring’s Crown

===== Page 149 =====
148
Opportunity: With so many poisonous plants 
around, trips, falls, or a gust of wind can turn 
dangerous. If the PCs succeed at three DC 24 
Nature or Survival or DC 26 Crafting checks, 
they successfully set up a trap and gain 1 EP. The 
watchmage guarding on the next shift must attempt 
a DC 26 basic Fortitude save against 4d10+22 
nonlethal poison damage. On a critical failure, the 
creature is also sickened until the end of the shift. 
This trap can be used three times before Sephone has 
all plants removed. All troops and their commander 
NPCs become permanently sickened 1 from contact 
with the plants during the cleanup.
On the 14th of Pharast, the excavation team reaches 
the basement (area O14). The creatures here take a 
–2 circumstance penalty to Perception checks from 
this day on, as they become concerned with what’s 
underground.
Treasure: A basilisk eye sits in the gazebo, left 
behind by a commander.
O8. RESEARCHER DORMITORY
Sephone’s research staff sleeps here. The door and 
windows are sprinkled with cold iron dust.
Complication or Opportunity: The researchers cast an 
alarm spell in the room with the audible alarm option. 
While triggering this alarm increases the PCs’ AP by 1, 
triggering it in three consecutive shifts results in Sephone 
demanding the researchers make it silent. This allows the 
PCs to draw only a demonologist to the room if the alarm 
is triggered subsequently. After both demonologists have 
been removed, Sephone must cast the spell herself. This 
gives the PCs 1 EP when they start their shift.
O9. GUEST BEDROOM	
MODERATE 8
This room is meant to accommodate any guests who 
might visit the manor. It’s only lit if a guest, or guests, 
stays over. If the PCs were hired by Sephone separately, 
they’re given this room to use.
Creatures: Sephone rarely has guests over, partly 
because this room is one of the places in which fey 
O8
O8
O9
O9
O10
O10
O15
O15
O14
O14
O11
O11
O12
O12
O13
O13
SARINI MANOR SECOND FLOOR
SARINI MANOR SECOND FLOOR
SARINI MANOR BASEMENT
SARINI MANOR BASEMENT
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 150 =====
149
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
especially like to ambush people. Whenever one or 
more creatures sleep in the room, some redcaps and 
an elananx show up after 1 hour to attack them. These 
redcaps, if made indifferent or better in attitude, let the 
PCs know about the tyrannical rule of Rustflesh and 
where to find him (area O12).
REDCAPS (4)	
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder Monster Core 290
Initiative Perception +12
ELANANX	
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder Monster Core 139
Initiative Perception +14
O10. DIABOLIST OFFICE AND QUARTERS
Sephone converted the bathroom to her private office 
and quarters. Other than a hefty desk taken from the 
main bedroom, very few furnishings decorate this area. 
Sephone even opts for a bedroll instead of a proper bed.
Opportunity: Sephone is usually here and sleeps in 
the morning. This changes once the excavation in the 
garden (area O7) unearths the basement (area O14). 
From the 14th and onward, Sephone spends her time 
in area O14 except for meetings and sleep. Each door 
has a good lock, and Sephone expects the security to 
keep people out of her room.
If the PCs are allied with Nixa’s army, they get a 
+2 circumstance bonus to Stealth checks to get into 
the room. If the PCs allied with the mercenaries, the 
number of checks needed to unlock the doors decrease 
by two each. Access to Sephone’s room allows the 
PCs to tamper with her items; if the PCs succeed at 
three DC 26 Arcana, Occultism, or Religion checks, 
Sephone loses a spell of each rank from her prepared 
spell list, determined by the GM. Unless a PC rolled 
a critical failure, which causes the PCs to gain 2 AP, 
Sephone assumes the tampering to be due to vicious 
fey pranks. If a PC critically succeeds, they also learn 
that Sephone has contracted an instillo and coartis 
to serve her.
Sephone is away for the entire day on the 16th of 
Pharast. She doesn’t reveal why she was gone, only 
that she headed into Saringallow. PCs who Investigate 
this room on the 16th can attempt a DC 28 Arcana 
or Religion check to Recall Knowledge to recognize 
preparations for a resurrect ritual.
Forgotten Connection: While she mainly follows 
Caeto into Isger to secure a recommendation for her 
to become a Hellknight signifier of the Order of the 
Gate, Sephone has an ulterior motive: she wants to 
know if Caeto knew who her parents were. Sephone 
was a Goblinblood orphan, only a few months old 
when Caeto’s contingent rescued her from goblinoids 
who’d raided a village and kidnapped its villagers. 
Despite being told to leave the child behind for the 
rescued folks to take to safety, Caeto then personally 
cared for Sephone until he found an orphanage in 
Haugin’s Ear that was willing to take her in. Caeto has 
forgotten about this small act of kindness completely, 
while Sephone hasn’t. She attempted and failed to 
write a letter to him a number of times, leaving a 
stack of drafts behind. The PCs can find out about this 
motivation of hers if they succeed at a DC 24 Arcana 
or Society check to Decipher Writing.
Reward: If the PCs discover Sephone’s past 
connection with Caeto, they gain 30 XP.
Treasure: Among Sephone’s belongings are a jade 
bauble (Player Core 2 305) and a greater emerald 
grasshopper.
O11. RUINED MASTER BEDROOM
The manor’s once-splendid master bedroom has an 
unfortunate hole in it from the collapsed roof. The 
commander NPC usually stands out on the balcony 
of the master bedroom, while the troops are inside 
and also stationed along the walkway and area O12 
during the day and afternoon.
Complication: If the PCs successfully tamper with 
Sephone’s items, she moves to sleep here during the 
morning shift under the watch of the guards.
O12. STUDY REMNANTS 	
MODERATE 8
The study’s remains are a ruin of its former self. All 
furniture, broken or whole, are pushed into the rotunda.
Creatures: The troops move out of this area at 
night to avoid the elananx and redcaps under the 
command of a pukwudgie named Rustflesh. He would 
rather like to evict both humanoids and other fey out 
of the manor, and an alliance with him is unlikely. 
Fortunately, Rustflesh fights to the death against the 
PCs, unaware of how powerful they are. If the PCs 
defeat Rustflesh and befriend the redcaps, they recruit 
a weak redcap brigade (Battlecry! 189).
REDCAPS (2)
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder Monster Core 290
Initiative Perception +12
ELANANX	
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder Monster Core 139
Initiative Perception +14
RUSTFLESH	
CREATURE 7
Pukwudgie (Pathfinder Monster Core 279)
Initiative Perception +17

===== Page 151 =====
150
Treasure: If the PCs defeat Rustflesh, they can take a 
greater pendant of the occult and a greater darkvision 
elixir off him.
O13. ROOFTOPS	
LOW 8
With the collapse of the basement, part of Sarini Manor 
sank down by an entire floor, resulting in a part of the 
roof now becoming level with the second floor.
Hazards: There are several Large patches of 
breathless orchards that have been wintering here. As 
the breathless thickets haven’t fed in a while, they look 
less menacing than they are.
BREATHLESS THICKETS (3)	
HAZARD 6
UNCOMMON
COMPLEX
ENVIRONMENTAL
 PLANT
Stealth +15 (expert; or –10 and no minimum proficiency if the 
thicket has been recognized)
Description A 10-foot-wide patch of dead shrubs with wilted 
flowers steals the breath of the living.
Disable DC 28 Nature (expert) or Survival (expert) to 
recognize the thicket for what it is and avoid it
AC 21; Fort +18, Ref +11
Hardness 15; HP 58 (BT 29); Immunities critical hits, object 
immunities, precision damage; Weaknesses fire 15
Branch Ambush [reaction] Trigger A creature that breathes steps 
within 5 feet of a thicket; Effect The thicket makes a 
sinewy leaves Strike against the triggering creature. The 
hazard then rolls initiative.
Routine (3 actions) The breathless thickets patch attempts 
to Strike a creature in its reach. It then uses Suffocate if 
it has any creature grabbed; otherwise, it continues to 
Strike.
Melee [one-action] sinewy leaves +20 (reach 10 feet), Effect branch 
grab
Branch Grab If the breathless thicket hits a creature with 
its leaves, that creature becomes grabbed by the thicket. 
Unlike with a normal Grab, the creature isn’t immobilized, 
but it can’t move beyond the reach of the thicket’s leaves. 
A creature can sever a branch by Striking against AC 18 
and dealing at least 12 slashing damage. A branch doesn’t 
have the thicket’s Hardness, and damaging it doesn’t deal 
damage to the thicket. The DC to Escape a branch is 26.
Suffocate [two-actions] (incapacitation, nonlethal) Requirements The 
breathless thicket has grabbed one or more creatures 
that breathe; Effect The dead flowers of the breathless 
thicket begin pulling oxygen from its victims’ lungs. Each 
creature grabbed by the breathless thicket takes 4d6 
nonlethal bludgeoning damage and must attempt a DC 26 
Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature takes no damage and can 
immediately attempt to Escape (DC 26) as a free action.
Success The creature takes half damage and is stupefied 
1 for 1 round.
Failure The creature takes full damage, is stupefied 
1 for 1 round, and is stunned 1. For as long as it’s 
grabbed by the thicket, the creature must hold its 
breath or suffocate.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature also falls 
unconscious and starts suffocating. If it’s no longer 
grabbed, the creature stops suffocating.
Reset The thicket goes back into hibernation 1 round after 
there are no more targets to Strike in its reach. It then 
remains dormant for 24 hours.
Opportunity: A PC who succeeds at a DC 29 
Nature or Survival check can remove a thicket 
without triggering it and unleash it in an area of 
their choice. If Sephone knows the PCs removed the 
breathless thickets, the PCs must succeed at a DC 
25 Deception check before or after they unleash the 
breathless thickets or gain 3 AP.
Treasure: Sephone has put up a reward for anyone 
who can get rid of all the orchard patches. If the PCs 
destroy or remove all the breathless thickets, she 
rewards them with a pair of armbands of athleticism. 
The PCs also find a pair of boots of bounding 
entangled in one of the thickets.
Day 7: Confrontation
The PCs must end their infiltration on the night of 
the 18th of Pharast, as the Hellbreakers expect Caeto 
to return by tomorrow. This confrontation can be 
triggered earlier at your discretion, particularly if 
all the troops and NPCs guarding the manor and 
Sephone’s staff have been defeated. When infiltration 
ends, for each troop or NPC they haven’t permanently 
removed, the PCs gain 2 AP. Sephone and fey creatures 
are excluded from this calculation. The GM should 
tally up the total number of AP the PCs have at this 
point. For every 5 points, the PCs gain 1 Liberation 
Point, which will apply in Chapter 9 (page 158). 
Location: If the basement hasn’t been excavated, 
Sephone sends the instillo to intercept the PCs at 
area O3 while she waits in area O10. Otherwise, the 
encounters take place as indicated below.
O14. A SHUT PORTAL	
LOW 8
This room has been left dark. The pentagram at 
the room’s center is still fresh, as if someone has 
retraced it.
Creature: Sephone secured the service of an instillo 
to delay the PCs. They fight to the death.
INSTILLO
CREATURE 8
Page 225
Initiative Perception +16

===== Page 152 =====
151
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Treasure: In the corner of the room are a collection 
of rare chalks and ritual components worth 200 gp.
O15. FIENDISH RECORDS SEVERE 8
Though part of the manor collapsed, the 
records the Sarinis penned about their 
grisly deeds survived. Like the portal 
room, this area is completely dark.
Creatures: While the instillo fights 
the PCs in area O14, Sephone applies 
as many buffing spells as she can, 
such as fly and mystic armor, so she 
can ambush the party while they’re 
still in that room. She orders her 
three other devil companions to 
focus on flanking and take down 
PCs who are most likely to disrupt her 
spellcasting. She summons a flame drake 
using her summon dragon spell if she has 
it, then uses her offensive spells paired with 
Channel Hellfire. As the devils are immune to fire, she 
has no fear of hurting them. Sephone uses Widen Spell 
when she can to catch as many PCs in the area of her 
spells. Otherwise, she prioritizes targeting healers and 
casters.
The devils and any summoned creatures fight to 
the death. If Sephone falls below 60 HP or if only 
one devil remains, she orders them to seek help from 
Saringallow. If all devils and minions are destroyed 
or banished or Sephone falls below 30 HP, she 
surrenders. If Sephone dies, the PCs lose 5 Reputation 
Points.
KYLIXES (2)	
CREATURE 4
Page 226
Initiative Perception +11
INSTILLO	
CREATURE 8
Page 225
Initiative Perception +16
SEPHONE HAUGINI	
CREATURE 9
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Female human diabolist
Perception +15; darkvision
Languages Chthonian, Common, Daemonic, Diabolic, 
Requian
Skills Arcana +18, Deception +14, Diplomacy +16, Fiend 
Lore +17, Intimidation +14, Occultism +15, Religion 
+15, Scribing Lore +15, Society +15
Str +0, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +4, Wis +2, Cha +3
Items explorer’s clothing, mage’s hat, silver religious 
symbol of Asmodeus, +1 striking staff
AC 26; Fort +14, Ref +17, Will +15
HP 117
Counterspell (arcane) [reaction] Trigger A creature Casts a Spell 
Sephone has prepared; Effect Sephone expends a 
prepared spell, losing the spell slot as if she had 
cast the triggering spell. She then attempts to 
counteract the triggering spell.
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] staff +17 (two-handed 1d8), 
Damage 2d4+4 bludgeoning
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 25, 
attack 
+17; 
5th 
darkvision, 
force barrage, summon dragon, 
thunderstrike; 4th fly, invisibility, 
mystic armor, wall of fire; 3rd 
alarm, grim tendrils, paralyze, translate; 
2nd breathe fire (×2), see the unseen, telekinetic 
maneuver; 1st enfeeble, fear, pummeling rubble, 
runic body; Cantrips (6th) daze, detect magic, 
shield, telekinetic projectile
Wizard School Spells (5th) 2 Focus Points, DC 25; 5th 
energy absorption, force bolt
Rituals DC 25; diabolic pact, resurrect
Channel Hellfire [one-action] (arcane, unholy) Frequency three 
times per day; Effect Sephone fuels her spell with 
the essence of Hell. The next spell she casts deals 
fire damage instead of its usual damage type. Any 
creature that takes damage from the spell and doesn’t 
have the unholy trait also takes an additional 2d8 
spirit damage (DC 25 basic Fortitude save).
Drain Religious Symbol [free-action] (arcane) Frequency once per 
minute; Effect Sephone drains her religious symbol 
and regains a spell she has cast. During her current 
turn, she can cast one spell she prepared today and 
already cast.
Widen Spell [one-action] (manipulate, spellshape) If the next 
action Sephone uses is to Cast a Spell that has an 
area of a cone or line and does not have a duration, 
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the 
length of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long 
or smaller, and add 10 feet to the length of a larger 
cone or line.
Concluding the Chapter
Once the PCs defeat and capture Sephone, the other 
forces at Sarini Manor also submit. Prisoners are 
taken to Highfort, where the Hellbreakers’ army 
slowly assembles. The morning after they captured 
Sarini Manor, the PCs learn that Caeto has been 
delayed in his return by a series of “unforeseen 
circumstances.” This development has bought the 
Hellbreakers precious breathing room; the liberation 
of Saringallow awaits.
Sephone

===== Page 153 =====
152
While the party was infiltrating Sarini Manor, 
Saringallow underwent a trial of its own. The 
occupying soldiers forced the city to relinquish their 
emergency supplies and begin rationing. Prominent 
holy locations were closed; some were even desecrated 
to ease Cheliax’s bound devils and help summon 
more. Activities down to daily grocery trips are now 
monitored, scrutinized, and restricted. Festivities are 
likewise prohibited, even those that were essential in 
function to the local agriculture and economy.
On the 19th of Pharast, Captain Jordis Serelli 
(determined nonbinary aiuvarin guard captain 5), 
Mayor Sandra Trinelli (savvy female human mayor 
6), and Ildris Ruvarra (wise male human cleric of 
Erastil 6) approached the commander of the forces to 
implore for leniency in the upcoming Planting Week. 
Their request was met with indifference, mockery, and 
violence. The commander left in charge, Caeto, decided 
to make an example out of the Erastilian, Ildris. The 
old priest was publicly beaten, dragged through the 
streets in chains, and then imprisoned to serve as a 
stern warning to the population.
Ildris’s 
adopted 
daughter, 
Nolaria 
Wintren 
(adventurous female human cleric of Erastil 5), nearly 
jumped the procession in what would have been a 
futile attempt to save the priest. Her friends pulled her 
away just in time to hide her when the occupying forces 
declared a citywide warrant to arrest and imprison 
Chapter 9:
The Battle for 
Saringallow

===== Page 154 =====
153
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
any non-Asmodean clergy until further notice. Under 
the cover of night, Nolaria snuck back home to collect 
her belongings, but she was spotted by a night patrol. 
With pursuers hot on her heels, Nolaria headed in the 
direction of Sarini Manor, to the ranch where a small 
private celebration of Firstbloom was taking place.
Interrupted Celebrations
The PCs are due for a rest after taking over Sarini 
Manor. Ethran and Jenvirik take over the duty of 
setting up the command post so the party can get 
some downtime. Since they’re now free on the vernal 
equinox, Fierdo asks if they would like to participate 
in the local celebration of Firstbloom on the night of 
the 19th. The PCs can accept or decline as they see fit; 
this decision only has a small impact on their starting 
location for the next encounter.
Firstbloom: For those who work in agriculture, 
Firstbloom is often considered the start of a new 
year. The holiday is celebrated on the evening before 
the vernal equinox, which keeps the celebration from 
overlapping with the numerous tasks required during 
Planting Week. While the PCs likely missed much of 
the setup, they are nevertheless welcome to join in the 
feasting, dancing, and exchanging of flower crowns.
Development: As midnight draws near, Nolaria 
stumbles into the celebrations, seeking sanctuary. The 
fact that Nolaria escaped from Saringallow with intel 
on the city’s current state makes her an important asset.
SKIRMISH AT THE RANCH	
LOW 9
One of the strategic advantages of the ranch is that one 
side of it is higher in elevation than the other. The road 
leading to the entrance of the ranch was dug right into 
the hill that creates that height difference, meaning 
there’s a 5-foot overhang on each side. Currently, the 
entire land is bathed in darkness save for the festival 
site, which is well lit with torches and a giant bonfire. 
Near the center of the ranch, there’s a small artificial 
pond that’s 5 feet deep.
This is a skirmish encounter that uses the rules 
starting on page 158 of Battlecry! The objective of 
the encounter is to rout the two Hellknight cavalry 
brigades. This will be easier if their commanders 
are defeated or flee. If half of the PCs are knocked 
unconscious, the Hellknights have free rein to tear 
the ranch apart.
PC Troops: Given the urgency of the situation, the 
PCs must rely on the troops readily available at the 
ranch. They have four troops—two line infantries 
(NPC Core 91) and two phalanx formations (NPC 
Core 91)—ready to fight, but the PCs don’t have time 
to form skirmish bonds with them. Since they know 
the enemies are coming in advance, the party can 
decide where they and their troops start.
Creatures: Two groups are pursuing Nolaria. One 
consists of 2 Hellknight cavalry brigades, each led 
by a Chelaxian knight. The second group is actually 
Saringallow’s own city guard led by Captain Jordis, 
who volunteered to join the search. While they put on 
a grand display of pretending to be loyal to be Cheliax, 
the captain and the guards are hoping to find Nolaria 
first so they can hide her in the barracks. The PCs 
recognize the captain and the city guards on sight.
Being more familiar with the area, Captain Jordis 
arrives at the ranch first. While Jordis never liked the 
Hellbreakers on principle, they know the rebels can 
hide Nolaria better than the city squad ever could. They 
give the PCs a chance to talk before attacking, allowing 
them to attempt two DC 25 Deception, Diplomacy, or 
Intimidation checks. If the PCs succeed at both, they 
convince Jordis to leave and act as if they didn’t find 
anyone. If any check is a critical success, Jordis tells 
the PCs that the Hellknight troops are coming. If the 
PCs don’t succeed at both checks, Jordis apologizes and 
informs the PCs that the guards have to search the area.
Fifteen minutes later, the cavalry brigades arrive and 
immediately initiate combat. If Jordis is there, their troop 
CHAPTER TIMELINE
Chapter 9 starts in the last third of the month of 
Pharast before extending into Gozran. Below are 
the dates of specific events featured in this chapter, 
as well as proposed deadlines the PCs should 
follow. GMs are welcome to make adjustments as 
they see fit.
PHARAST 4726 ar
20th: Firstbloom celebrations at Vulaunex Ranch 
are interrupted by a skirmish.
21st: PCs and Hellbreakers relocate to Sarini Manor. 
Nolaria divulges what happened in the city.
31st: Deadline for recruiting and gathering the 
Hellbreaker army.
GOZRAN 4726 ar
5th: Battle of Saringallow begins.
7th: Currentseve. Deadline for breaking the siege 
on Saringallow.
8th: Caeto begins his trip on land toward 
Saringallow from Logas.
10th: Caeto arrives in Saringallow. The Hellbreakers 
spring their ambush and confront him.

===== Page 155 =====
154
joins the scuffle on the side of the Hellknight brigades. 
Jordis orders a retreat for the city guard after the PCs 
get two critical hits on them or their troop, or if they’re 
reduced to 40 Hit Points or fewer, whichever comes first.
The Hellknights, meanwhile, are completely willing to 
raze the ranch to the ground to try and find the fugitive. 
The Hellknight troops fight until they are routed and 
their commanders fight until they are reduced to 25 Hit 
Points or fewer, at which point they flee.
ELITE CITY GUARD SQUADRON	
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 114
JORDIS SERELLI 	
CREATURE 6
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Nonbinary human captain
Perception +15
Languages Common
Skills Athletics +15, Diplomacy +11, Intimidation +13, Legal 
Lore +12, Society +10, Warfare Lore +8
Str +5, Dex +0, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +3
Items crossbow (20 bolts), dagger, full plate, +1 longsword, 
steel shield (Hardness 5, HP 20, BT 10)
AC 24 (26 with shield raised); Fort +14, Ref +12, Will +15
HP 90
Bravery When Jordis rolls a success on a Will save against 
a fear effect, they get a critical success instead. Any time 
they gain the frightened condition, reduce its value by 1.
Reactive Strike [reaction]
Shield Block [reaction]
Shield Warden When Jordis has their shield raised, they 
can Shield Block when an attack is made against an 
adjacent ally. If they do, the shield prevents that ally 
from taking damage instead of Jordis.
Speed 20 feet
Melee [one-action] longsword +18 (magical, versatile P), Damage 
1d8+11 slashing
Melee [one-action] fist +17 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 
1d4+11 bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] crossbow +12 (range increment 120 feet, reload 
1), Damage 1d8+6 piercing
Shielded Advance [one-action] Requirements Jordis has their shield 
raised; Effect Jordis presses forward, using their shield 
to push back foes. Jordis Strides and Shoves, in either 
order. The multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to this 
Shove, though the Shove does count toward Jordis’s 
multiple attack penalty.
CHELAXIAN KNIGHTS (2)	
CREATURE 7
Knight (Pathfinder NPC Core 16)
Initiative Perception +13
HELLKNIGHT CAVALRY BRIGADES (2)	
CREATURE 8
Pathfinder NPC Core 93
Treasure: Nolaria gifts the PCs a greater coyote 
cloak for rescuing her. She also managed to sneak out 
a book on rituals Ildris gifted her years ago, through 
which the PCs can learn three rituals: fortifying brew, 
planar servitor, and resurrect. Learning a ritual takes 8 
hours, and a PC can only learn 1 ritual per day.
Reward: For driving off the Hellknights, award the 
PCs 70 XP and 5 Reputation Points as word spreads 
that some heroes—the sources won’t say who, so 
everyone assumes it must be the Hellbreakers—saved 
the ranch from “bandits.” This is the last encounter 
that rewards Reputation Points in the adventure.
Development: If the PCs fail this encounter, the 
ranch is burned down in what is remembered later 
as the Firstbloom Sacking, and they lose access to the 
ranch. The Vulaunex family laments how things turn 
out but say they can always rebuild. The land is still 
there, as it always will be.
Regardless of the outcome, Ethran advises the PCs 
to move into Sarini Manor and bring Nolaria with 
them. Nolaria informs the Hellbreakers of the current 
situation within Saringallow and the events that led 
up to her flight from the city. As Ildris’s child and 
Saringallow’s gravekeeper, Nolaria is one of the few 
people who knows almost every social circle within 
the city.
RANCH SKIRMISH
RANCH SKIRMISH
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 156 =====
155
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
The Calm Before the Storm
The adventure returns to a slight sandbox again from 
the 21st of Pharast to the 4th of Gozran. During this 
time, while the army continues to come together, the 
party can head out again and attempt to recruit any 
troops they didn’t manage to unlock in the previous 
two chapters. They can recruit up until the 31st, as 
it’s suggested the 1st to 4th of Gozran be used for the 
armies to train and strategize together.
PREPARING FOR WAR
For the next several days, the PCs should make 
preparations for the battle ahead. Saringallow isn’t 
an easy target to besiege, but that doesn’t mean it’s 
impossible. Perhaps there’s a weakness or two the PCs 
can exploit if they wish to infiltrate the city instead. 
The PCs should also take a day to form a skirmish 
bond with one of the recruited troops, preferably 
one of 8th or 9th level; they won’t always be fighting 
alongside this troop, but once the siege begins, they 
won’t have time to form this bond, so they should do 
it now. The PCs can also take the time to craft items 
and retrain, if they so desire.
Recon
Using stealth, deception, and perhaps a bit of magic, 
the PCs can investigate occupied Saringallow to 
discover any weak points in its defenses and discover 
where their comrades are being held. They might also 
receive a bit of insight on who or what they’ll likely 
face when they storm the walls.
This investigation uses the Research subsystem 
(GM Core 190). Each research check takes 8 
hours, so any PC who attempts one won’t be able 
to do downtime activities that day. The PCs can use 
the following methods to gain reconnaissance on 
Saringallow. At the GM’s discretion, the use of an 
appropriate spell (such as a scrying spell to look into 
the city from a distance) gains the PCs 1 or more 
Research Points.
Questioning the Locals: The PCs can make inquiries 
about what’s been going on behind the walls by 
speaking with the citizens who are allowed to come 
and go and those who live just outside the city; 
Maximum RP 5; Research Checks DC 24 Isger Lore or 
Society to determine which people to approach, DC 26 
Diplomacy to win the citizens over, DC 27 Intimidation 
to scare the locals into divulging information.
Spying on the City: Reconnaissance from afar is the 
best way to learn about Saringallow’s current situation 
without being spotted; Maximum RP 5; Research 
Checks DC 23 Engineering Lore or Warfare Lore to 
notice weak spots in the city’s defenses, DC 24 Stealth 
to observe unnoticed, DC 26 Perception or Society to 
follow enemy movements within the city.
Trading Secret Messages: The Hellbreakers League 
had lots of allies within Saringallow, and those 
who haven’t been captured might be able to get 
information to the PCs if contacted; Maximum RP 5; 
Research Checks DC 22 Scribing Lore to hide requests 
in the margins of normal documents, DC 24 Society 
to encode and decode messages, DC 26 Deception or 
Stealth to keep the correspondence secret.
SARINGALLOW RECONNAISSANCE
RESEARCH 9
UNIQUE
Research Checks questioning the locals, spying on the city, 
trading secret messages
1 Research Point Before he left Saringallow, Caeto handed 
the reins of command to Nayren Allurajix (confident 
agender human battleblooded WoI nephilim Hellknight), 
a maralictor from the Order of the Rack. Nayren would 
likely keep watch over important prisoners.
THE HELLBREAKER COALITION
Below is a list of all the troops and NPCs (in bold) 
the PCs might have conscripted since Chapter 
7 or can newly conscript this chapter, in order 
of the level of the unit from lowest to highest. 
Ancestry adjustments (NPC Core 168) that might 
be applicable are also noted. An asterisk indicates 
that the PCs should automatically receive these 
troops at the beginning of Chapter 9.
Stumpfield: line infantry (goblin), Stumpfield 
saboteurs, Stumpfield warchanters
Umok: line infantry (gnome), wolf pack, Umok 
beastspeakers
Vordia: line infantry, dwarf battalion, gnome 
cannon corps
Wolfpoint: line infantry, goblin get gang, bandit 
gang
Thorngrip: 2 elite goblin rabbles*, Brakknap, 
hobgoblin battalion*
Gillamoor, A1 : 1 or 2 Hellknight calvary brigade(s)
Logas: 2 hobgoblin battalions*
Chapter 8 Chase: Alceo or Phoebe Demetrias
Ambush Site, E1: Nixa Volsetti, 2 heavy cavalries
Sarini Manor: Spring’s Crown, weak redcap 
brigade
Oprak: If Ambassador Vrig is alive, the PCs can 
attempt to recruit a hobgoblin battalion as a 
basic unit and a hobgoblin veteran regiment 
(Battlecry! 183) as an advance unit from Oprak.

===== Page 157 =====
156
3 Research Points Most of the devil summoning is 
overseen by a gate-maralictor named Gredress 
Tilnanos (cautious female human Hellknight signifer 
7). Gredress is the most perceptive 
of the leaders and won’t be easily 
fooled by feints. However, 
if she can be eliminated, 
devil reinforcements will be 
limited. The PCs learn about 
how the Hellknight forces 
have 
been 
stockpiling 
weapons in City Hall’s 
attached armory (see 
Mission 2 on page 
161). A Hellbreaker ally 
delivers 6 silver salves to 
the PCs.
5 Research Points The PCs learn that the 
two city gates closest to Saringallow’s 
graveyard appear to be the least defended, but 
this is likely a ploy to ensnare attacking armies. The 
PCs can take advantage of this by feinting toward 
those gates with a sizable army while sending a 
smaller force to infiltrate via the Noble’s Folly Gate 
(see Mission 1 on page 160).
8 Research Points There’s a Hellknight among the 
enemy forces who has been resurrected recently. 
Reportedly, there were some complications that 
required heavy negotiations with Hell. The PCs 
also learn that Hellbreakers property has been 
conveniently converted to makeshift prisons (see 
Missions 3, 4, and 5 on pages 162 and 163). No 
matter how secretive they’ve been, the PCs have to 
deal with an enemy spying on them (see Counterspy 
on page 157)!
12 Research Points The Hellknight occupiers likely won’t 
hold back if the PCs manage to free a Riotmonger. 
Other than the words “dragon” and “undead,” no 
other information has been provided.
15 Research Points The revived Hellknight is Viro Ahala, 
transformed into a being of hellish rage as both 
punishment and reward. The PCs should be prepared 
to face the armiger once again alongside Nayren. An 
ally gives the PCs a moderate reinforcing rune.
Reward: If the PCs gain at least 5 Research Points, 
award them 10 XP. If they gain all 15 Research 
Points, award them 30 XP instead.
Strategy and Logistics
By this point, the Hellbreakers have multiple armies 
under their banner. The PCs have already engaged 
in a bit of skirmish warfare, but the upcoming siege 
on Saringallow will see them fully implementing 
their troops to their full abilities against other large 
troops. How the PCs direct the troops under their 
command will affect the overall outcome of 
the battle.
As such, the PCs should choose 
four troops with which to gain 
skirmish bonds. Each PC forms 
a skirmish bond with one troop, 
and that bond will be active for 
the entirety of the siege. Should a 
PC’s troop be killed in the line 
of duty, they can command a 
new troop of the same level 
in the next skirmish encounter, 
but unless the PCs retreat from 
the city and take an entire day of 
downtime to train with their troops, 
that PC doesn’t have a skirmish bond 
with this new troop. The ramifications of 
stepping away from the battle for a day are explained 
in Liberation Points on page 158.
The PCs choose two level 8 troops and two level 
9 troops for the battles ahead. No matter who 
else they’ve recruited, the level 8 troops available 
to them include an elite bandit gang (NPC Core 
5, 22), an elite gnome cannon corps (NPC Core 5, 
Battlecry! 182), a Hellknight cavalry brigade (NPC 
Core 93), and a troop of woodland scouts (NPC 
Core 179). Similarly, the level 9 troops include a 
hobgoblin veteran regiment (Battlecry! 183), a 
mercenary band (NPC Core 84), a weak dwarf 
longshot squad (NPC Core 5, Battlecry! 179), and 
a weak watchmage squadron (NPC Core 5, 120). 
You can provide the PCs with other options at your 
discretion.
The lower-level troops the PCs have been 
recruiting will also be helpful in the war effort, as 
described in The Western Feint on page 159.
Sabotage
A city under siege is at the mercy of its current level 
of supplies and an ever-shrinking morale. While 
most of the occupiers of Saringallow are devils 
and highly disciplined Hellknights, the PCs can 
nevertheless attempt to sabotage the city’s defenses 
in preparation for their eventual attack using the 
Sabotage Saringallow downtime activity described 
below. This activity takes 8 hours (and so precludes 
any other downtime activities) and grants Liberation 
Points (which are described on page 158). The PCs 
can earn a maximum of 5 Liberation Points from 
sabotage.
Nayren Allurajix

===== Page 158 =====
157
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
SABOTAGE SARINGALLOW
DOWNTIME
Through espionage and similar underhanded tactics, you 
weaken the occupying Hellknights’ defenses and morale. 
Attempt a DC 26 Deception, Thievery, or Warfare Lore check.
Critical Success You cut off external supplies or sow chaos 
in the city from afar. You gain 1 Liberation Point and the 
next check attempted to Sabotage Saringallow gains a 
+2 circumstance bonus.
Success You manage to noticeably sabotage an aspect or 
function of the city. You gain 1 LP.
Critical Failure Your efforts backfire, causing the occupying 
forces to dig in. You lose 1 LP (minimum of 0).
COUNTERSPY	
MODERATE 9
Espionage is a common tactic in warfare, especially 
during revolutions and protracted sieges. While 
the PCs are doing their own reconnaissance, the 
Hellknight forces stationed in Saringallow are on 
the watch for them. Their interim leader Nayren 
Allurajix is expecting the Hellbreakers League to try 
to rescue their captive comrades, so the Hellknight is 
on guard for the rebels’ approach. To that end, as the 
PCs continue to amass their forces by Sarini Manor 
and perform their own spying, a group of devils is 
watching them.
When the PCs accrue 8 Research Points in the 
Saringallow Reconnaissance research challenge above, 
an allied lookout catches a glimpse of one these devils 
near the manor late one night. Alternatively, you can 
use this encounter at any time before the Hellbreakers’ 
attack on the city begins to show that their enemies 
aren’t complacently waiting around.
This encounter can take place on any map used to 
represent the lands near Sarini Manor. It’s nighttime, 
but the lookout drops their lit lantern after spotting 
the devil, providing some light to see by.
Creatures: While the lookout spotted only one devil, 
the counterespionage unit consists of four coartis, 
using their wings and their ability to teleport to remain 
out of sight until now. They descend upon the lookout, 
who cries out for help before they’re swarmed. While 
the PCs don’t have enough time to muster any of their 
allied troops, they can arrive on the scene before the 
coartis escape. The devils take this opportunity to 
engage in battle instead of fleeing, either mistakenly 
believing the PCs will be as easy to kill or recognizing 
them as important Hellbreaker leaders.
One coarti casts darkness at the beginning of 
the fight to prevent allied NPCs at the manor from 
interfering. Two of the devils stand firm against the 
PCs, using Despairing Shriek if the other coartis aren’t 
in range. The other two swoop in to strike before 
flying out of melee range each turn. The coartis fight 
until defeated.
COARTI SPIES (4)	
CREATURE 7
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
DEVIL
FIEND
UNHOLY
Variant coarti (Pathfinder Monster Core 87)
Perception +17; greater darkvision
Languages Common, Diabolic, Draconic, Empyrean; 
telepathy 100 feet, truespeech
Skills Acrobatics +15, Athletics +15, Deception +17, Legal 
Lore +14, Religion +17
Str +4, Dex +6, Con +2, Int +3, Wis +4, Cha +4
Items +1 dagger
AC 24; Fort +13, Ref +17, Will +15; +1 status to all saves 
vs. magic
HP 110; Immunities fire; Weaknesses holy 5 (see blood 
contract); Resistances physical 5 (except silver), poison 5
Blood Contract When the coarti takes damage from their 
holy weakness, blood flows freely from their eyes 
and the contract carved into their skin. They take 1d6 
persistent bleed damage and are dazzled as long as 
the persistent damage continues, but their Despairing 
Shriek recharges.
Speed 25 feet, fly 40 feet
Melee [one-action] dagger +18 (magical, unholy, versatile P), 
Damage 1d6+10 slashing plus 1d6 spirit
Melee [one-action] wing +17 (agile, unholy, versatile P), Damage 
1d6+7 bludgeoning plus 1d6 fire
Divine Innate Spells DC 25; 4th darkness, translocate (at
will); Constant (5th) truespeech
Rituals DC 25; diabolic pact (Monster Core 364)
Despairing Shriek [two-actions] (divine, sonic, unholy) The coarti 
lets out a terrible cry, dealing 4d6 sonic damage to all 
creatures in a 30-foot emanation with a DC 25 basic 
Will save. Holy creatures that fail this save are also 
frightened 2; this added effect has the emotion, fear, 
and mental traits. The coarti can’t use Despairing Shriek 
again for 1d4 rounds.
OTHER STRATEGIES
Your PCs might have a different idea about 
infiltrating Saringallow, and that’s fine! Ethran or 
another Hellbreaker can steer them toward the 
methods presented in this chapter, but ultimately, 
the players are in charge of the liberation. Use 
the missions and Liberation Points rules provided 
to adjudicate their method, and be sure to stress 
the importance of rescuing captives and taking 
out key enemy figures like Gredress Tilnanos and 
Nayren Allurajix.

===== Page 159 =====
158
Sneak Attack The coarti spy deals an extra 2d6 precision 
damage to off-guard creatures.
Wing Snap [one-action] Frequency once per turn; Effect The coarti 
makes two wing Strikes, then falls if they’re flying. They 
can’t Fly until the end of their turn.
For Saringallow!
On the morning of the 5th of Gozran, the temporary 
Hellbreaker leadership calls upon the PCs. Ethran 
gives each PC a standard bearing the Hellbreakers’ 
insignia, which officially puts them in charge of 
leading this battle. The PCs can easily notice that no 
other Hellbreaker, not even a Riotmonger, is holding 
a standard. The PCs have truly been given the reins 
of command for the upcoming battle to free the city. 
The Eagle Knight muses how less than a year ago, the 
PCs were but recruits running errands. They’ve since 
grown into capable leaders with more than a hundred 
under their command. It’s a heavy burden, but one 
that the PCs wear well.
Speech! Speech! The gathered army clamors for the 
PCs to say something encouraging. This monumental 
moment requires each PC to attempt a DC 26 
Diplomacy, Intimidation, or Performance check. If 
they achieve at least one success, the army erupts into 
rousing cheers. For the remainder of the chapter, each 
troop commanded by a PC can reroll a single check 
during the first skirmish encounter they are part of; 
this is a fortune effect. If the PCs achieved at least three 
successes, each troop commanded by a PC gains this 
benefit for all skirmish encounters they are part of.
LIBERATION POINTS
The success of the retaking of Saringallow is measured 
in Liberation Points. The PCs might already have 
gained a few Liberation Points from earlier actions, 
but the majority of Liberation Points will be garnered 
through their efforts on the field of battle and within 
the city walls. Keep a running tally of the total 
Liberation Points, as this will also determine how 
quickly Caeto Vulaunex learns that the Hellbreakers 
have retaken the city.
Momentum is important. Once the attacks begin, 
if the PCs retreat from the city to take a full night’s 
rest, they lose 2 Liberation Points, plus 1 additional 
Liberation Point for every day they don’t resume 
the attack, as the Hellknight forces use the respite to 
bolster their defenses.
WALL AND GATE
WALL AND GATE
HEADQUARTERS
HEADQUARTERS
SECOND FLOOR
SECOND FLOOR
FIRST FLOOR
FIRST FLOOR
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 160 =====
159
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
However, in between their missions, the PCs can 
bolster the attacking forces with the Aid Liberation 
exploration activity.
AID LIBERATION
EXPLORATION
You briefly deviate from your planned missions to find 
a spot where your allies could use some help, either 
defeating an evenly matched force or planning a route to 
proceed through the city. This takes 10 minutes. Attempt a 
DC 28 Warfare Lore check.
Critical Success Through your words or your deeds, you 
give an allied troop much-needed tactical advice or help 
them vanquish a foe. You gain 2 Liberation Points.
Success You lend a hand to an allied troop in battle. You 
gain 1 LP.
Failure As you fight your way through the streets, you 
have an unplanned skirmish. You handily win the fight, 
but each PC loses a number of Hit Points equal to their 
level.
Critical Failure You make a tactical blunder, engaging an 
enemy you weren’t prepared for. You lose 1 LP, and each 
PC loses a number of Hit Points equal to twice their level.
Special Once a PC performs this exploration activity, no 
other PC can attempt it until the PCs have gained or lost 
Liberation Points through another means.
THE WESTERN FEINT
With advice from Ethran (and Rhokrag if he hasn’t 
been captured again), the Hellbreakers have a plan 
that will distract most of the occupying forces long 
enough for the PCs to take their own troops and 
infiltrate the city. Several of the armies the PCs have 
recruited over the past few weeks will march on 
Saringallow’s two western gates with the seeming 
intent of breaking through. This should draw enough 
Hellknights and devils to that side of the city, allowing 
the PCs to take Noble’s Folly Gate to the north. This 
won’t be simple, however, as the Hellknights have 
armies to spare!
The strength of the forces sent to this feint will 
determine its success. The players should choose six 
troops from the troops they have recruited (three for 
each gate). They shouldn’t choose any of the troops 
they’ve already formed a skirmish bond with; those 
soldiers will be accompanying the PCs as they march 
on the northern gate. Then, add up the levels of the 
three troops assigned to each gate. If the PCs assign 
an NPC commander to a group of three, add 1 to that 
total. If the total for a group is 15 or lower, the PCs earn 
1 Liberation Point. Otherwise, they earn 2 Liberation 
Points. The PCs can earn a total of 4 Liberation Points 
for this feint.
When these armies attack the western gates, the 
PCs can proceed to Noble’s Folly Gate, starting with a 
skirmish outside the walls (see below).
OUTSIDE THE WALLS	
MODERATE 9
Though most of the Hellknight troops have shifted 
their focus to the western walls, the PCs have to 
deal with one patrolling army before they can reach 
Noble’s Folly Gate. This entails taking the troops 
they’re commanding and smashing through the line to 
reach the gatehouse entrance.
This is a skirmish encounter, using the rules outlined 
starting on page 158 of Battlecry! The objective of 
the encounter is for all PCs to reach the gatehouse 
entrance (as indicated by the dotted lines on the map 
on page 158). For more than one PC to enter that 
space, the PCs will have to relinquish command of 
their troops at just the right moment, leaving them 
vulnerable to being routed. However, once all PCs are 
in the designated area, they can move on to Mission 1 
(page 160) while their troops finish the battle outside 
the gate. If the half of the PCs’ troops are routed 
before they can enter the gatehouse, the PCs will have 
to either flee and try again with different troops or 
finish the fight.
PC Troops: The PCs command the troops they 
chose to form a skirmish bond with before the siege 
begins (see Strategy and Logistics on page 156).
Creatures: The patrol consists of two Hellknight 
cavalry brigades, each led by a Hellknight field-
maralictor. They are accompanied by a legion of 
vordines commanded reluctantly by an experienced 
docent devil named Besunas. The docent devil hopes 
that the throng of vordines will protect her while she 
casts her spells, and only drives them forward into 
melee combat when left with no other choice.
HELLKNIGHT FIELD-MARALICTORS (2)	 CREATURE 8
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Variant knights (Pathfinder NPC Core 16)
Perception +15
Languages Common
Skills Athletics +19, Diplomacy +14, Intimidation +18, 
Society +15, Warfare Lore +17
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +1
Items +1 bastard sword, full plate with livery, spear (3), 
steel shield (Hardness 5, 20 HP, BT 10)
AC 27 (29 with shield raised); Fort +16, Ref +16, Will +15
HP 130
Hellknight’s Rigor Any time the Hellknight field-maralictor 
gains the frightened condition, they reduce its value by 1.
Quick Shield Block [reaction] The Hellknight field-maralictor has 
an additional reaction they can use only to Shield Block.

===== Page 161 =====
160
They can Shield Block for an adjacent ally, preventing 
that ally from taking damage instead of protecting 
themself.
Reactive Strike [reaction]
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] bastard sword +20 (magical, two-hand 
d12), Damage 1d8+2+10 slashing
Melee [one-action] spear +19, Damage 1d6+2+10 
piercing
Melee [one-action] gauntlet +19 (agile, 
free-hand), Damage 1d4+12 
bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action]spear +19 (thrown 20 
feet), Damage 1d6+12 piercing
Intimidating Strike [two-actions] (emotion, fear, 
fighter, mental) The Hellknight field-maralictor 
makes a melee Strike. If it hits and deals damage, 
the target is frightened 1, or frightened 2 on a critical hit.
Maralictor’s 
Command 
[one-action] 
(auditory, 
concentrate, 
linguistic, mental) The Hellknight field-maralictor shouts 
a command to an ally of their choice. That ally can spend 
a reaction to Stride and Strike. The ally becomes immune 
to Maralictor’s Command for 24 hours.
Warding Shift [one-action] Requirements The Hellknight field-
maralictor is adjacent to a willing ally; Effect The 
Hellknight field-maralictor moves an adjacent willing 
ally 5 feet in any direction and can Step into the space 
the ally vacated.
HELLKNIGHT CAVALRY BRIGADES (2)	
CREATURE 8
Pathfinder NPC Core 93
BESUNAS 	
CREATURE 9
Elite instillo (Pathfinder Monster Core 6 and page 225)
Initiative Perception +18
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 28, attack +20; 5th cloak of 
colors PC2, mind probe; 4th containment PC2, countless 
eyes PC2, translocate; 3rd enthrall (×2), paralyze; 2nd 
deafness, entangling flora, stupefy; 1st charm, enfeeble, 
force barrage; Cantrips (5th) bullhorn PC2, daze, live 
wire PC2, message, telekinetic hand
VORDINE LEGION	
CREATURE 10
Pathfinder Battlecry! 193
Reward: For achieving this skirmish encounter’s 
objective, award the PCs 80 XP.
Development: Keep track of how much damage the 
PCs’ troops take in this fight. Unless the PCs take the 
time now to provide healing for their troops, these 
soldiers will be wounded when they rejoin the PCs for 
the fight in Mission 8 if it occurs on the same day as 
this fight.
MISSIONS INSIDE SARINGALLOW
Once the PCs have made it inside the Noble’s 
Folly gatehouse, their journey to liberate 
Saringallow begins in earnest. They must 
first defeat those occupying the gatehouse 
to allow their troops inside the city, but 
after that, they can complete most of the 
missions below in any order. Some 
missions will lead to others, 
and the PCs might only know 
about certain missions if they 
completed enough research (see 
Saringallow 
Reconnaissance 
on 
page 155).
Mission 1: Noble’s Folly Gate
Moderate 9
The feint against the western gates does draw 
most of the city’s attention there, but as the PCs 
might have learned, the Hellknight signifer Gredress 
Tilnanos isn’t easily fooled. Her paranoia pays off 
when she spots the PCs marching on Noble’s Folly 
Gate. To begin their infiltration of the city, the PCs will 
have to take the gatehouse where Gredress is holed 
up. They must do so alone, as the troops they brought 
to the city remain in the field to battle the Hellknight 
brigades. To represent the interior of the gatehouse, 
use an appropriate Flip-Mat of your choice.
Creatures: Gredress has three warmonger devils 
with her to protect the gatehouse. They protect her 
as frontline fighters while she casts spells at the PCs. 
These foes fight to the death or until unconscious, not 
realizing how powerful the PCs are.
GREDRESS TILNANOS	
CREATURE 7
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
UNHOLY
Variant demonologist (Pathfinder NPC Core 100)
Initiative Perception +15
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Academia Lore +14, Arcana +16, Devil Lore +18, 
Diplomacy +11 (+13 with devils), Religion +15
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +2, Int +4, Wis +4, Cha +0
Items +1 longspear, robes, Fiendish Hypotheses and 
Protections from Same (spellbook), Hellknight half plate 
(Treasure Vault 10), signifer mask
Diabolic Certitude (divine, mental) Some signifers are 
so assured of their power to control devils that they 
sometimes reach too far. When Gredress publicly 
espouses the superiority of Hell, she gains a +1 status 
bonus to skill checks, AC, and saves for 1 day. These 
bonuses don’t apply against devils. At the end of the 
day, Gredress must attempt a DC 20 Will save or take a 
–1 status penalty to skill checks, AC, and saves against 
devils for 1 day (or –2 on a critical failure).
Gredress

===== Page 162 =====
161
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
AC 22; Fort +13, Ref +12, Will +15
HP 100
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] longspear +17 (magical, reach), Damage 1d8+9 
piercing
Melee [one-action] fist +16 (agile, nonlethal, unarmed), Damage 
1d4+9 bludgeoning
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 25, attack +17; 4th 
containment PC2, translocate, vision of death; 3rd 
crashing wave PC2, fireball, gravity well PC2, paralyze; 2nd 
blur, floating flame, noise blast, telekinetic maneuver; 
1st fear (×2), fleet step, hydraulic push; Cantrips (4th) 
caustic blast, daze, detect magic, light, read aura
Breach the Pit [free-action] Requirements Gredress’s last action 
was to cast a non-cantrip spell; Effect Gredress siphons 
energy drawn from Hell into her weapon. Until the end 
of the turn, the weapon deals an extra 2d6 damage. 
Roll 1d20 to determine the type: 1–4 cold, 5–12 fire, 
13–16 poison, 17–20 void.
Devil Summoning Gredress can cast a 5th-rank summon 
fiend arcane spell to summon a devil. To do so, she 
must sacrifice two 4th-rank prepared spells and 
voluntarily take 4d12 mental damage that can’t be 
reduced or prevented. If Gredress is unable to Sustain 
the Spell, including if she’s knocked out or killed, the 
spell continues, but the GM rolls a DC 10 flat check 
each round, ending the spell on a failure.
LEVALOCHS (3)
CREATURE 7
Pathfinder Monster Core 2 99
Initiative Perception +16
Liberation Points: Defeating Gredress and securing 
the gate earns the PCs 2 Liberation Points.
Development: If the PCs haven’t learned about 
where the Hellknights are keeping Hellbreakers 
captive yet, a note in the gatehouse informs them 
about the prisoners being held at the Beacon Candle 
workshop (see Mission 3 on page 162).
Mission 2: Armory Sabotage
Moderate 9
Saringallow’s town hall complex is close to the center 
of the city. Most of the buildings are administrative, 
but the area also includes a small garrison and armory 
for the city’s guards. Since Saringallow’s occupation, 
this area has been overrun by Hellknights and devils as 
Caeto and Nayren work to keep their forces supplied. 
A calculated strike against the armory while most of 
the occupying forces are fighting at the western wall 
would help undermine their strength and make the 
liberation of Saringallow that much easier.
Once inside the city proper, the PCs can 
approach the town hall garrison from almost 
any direction. When they arrive, they find it nearly 
empty. The mayor and other bureaucrats are still 
within, hunkering down as the siege commences, but 
even if they spot the PCs approaching, they don’t try 
to stop them.
To sabotage or destroy the armory, the PCs can 
use any means at their disposal, whether that be with 
devastating spells, using demolition equipment, or by 
smashing and stealing everything in sight. That last 
method takes about an hour.
You can use part of Pathfinder Flip-Mat: Bigger 
Keep for this encounter.
Creatures: Before the PCs can examine the garrison 
armory, they have to deal with the few individuals 
left behind: a pair of Hellknight drill sergeants and 
a warmonger devil called to keep watch over the 
building. The devil fights until destroyed, but the drill 
sergeants flee the scene when reduced to 20 or fewer 
Hit Points.
 Fiendish Viro 
Ahala

===== Page 163 =====
162
LEVALOCH	
CREATURE 7
Pathfinder Monster Core 2 99
Initiative Perception +16
DRILL SERGEANTS (2)	
CREATURE 8
Pathfinder NPC Core 93
Initiative Perception +16
Liberation Points: For destroying the garrison 
armory, the PCs gain 2 Liberation Points.
Treasure: Within the armory, the PCs find a 
runestone with a coating rune (Treasure Vault 32).
Mission 3: Workshop Rescue
Low 9
From their research or other means, the PCs have 
learned that some of their Hellbreaker allies are 
being kept in the Beacon Candle workshop. The 
Hellbreaker siege feint means that most of the 
security there has been redirected elsewhere, giving 
the PCs an opportunity to free the prisoners.
Creatures: The enemy forces have left a greater 
hell hound and a coarti behind to guard the 
building. The hell hound patrols the warehouse area 
(55 feet by 60 feet) alone, making chew toys out 
of the workshop’s furniture. The coarti watches the 
shopfront (35 feet by 20 feet), which opens directly 
to the outdoors and warehouse. Both creatures fight 
until destroyed. 
Captured Hellbreakers NPCs of level 2 and lower 
are imprisoned here. If no NPCs captured fit that bill, 
there are five generic members of the Hellbreakers 
League imprisoned here.
COARTI	
CREATURE 7
Pathfinder Monster Core 87
Initiative Perception +17
GREATER HELL HOUND	
CREATURE 9
Pathfinder Monster Core 194
Initiative Perception +19
Liberation Points: Saving these Hellbreakers grants 
the PCs 1 Liberation Point.
Treasure: Stashed away among the workshop’s 
stock are three standard-grade alloy orbs and a 
moderate bravo’s brew.
Development: If the PCs haven’t learned the 
locations of the other Hellbreaker prisoners, one of 
CROSSROAD PLAZA
CROSSROAD PLAZA
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET

===== Page 164 =====
163
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
the NPCs here tells the PCs about those being held in 
the former HQ (see Mission 4).
Mission 4: Headquarters Rescue	
Moderate 9
After 
some 
consideration, 
Caeto 
decided 
the 
Hellbreakers’ elusive headquarters would make the 
perfect bait for capturing those who got away. He 
therefore imprisoned more important Hellbreakers 
NPCs of 3rd level, such as Gram, Rhokrag, and 
Maire, in the rooms on the second floor. If there are no 
captured NPCs that fit that description, there are three 
generic senior Hellbreakers here instead. Use the map 
on page 158 for this encounter.
Creatures: Three assassins await on the first floor, 
hidden in the banisters above the dining room. Due 
to their contract, the assassins are obligated to fight to 
the death, though they do their best to knock the PCs 
unconscious instead of killing them.
ASSASSINS (3)
CREATURE 8
Pathfinder NPC Core 23
Initiative Perception +16
Liberation Points: Freeing the Hellbreakers here 
grants the PCs 1 Liberation Point.
Treasure: The Hellbreaker captives give the PCs a 
basilisk eye, trident of lightning, and nettleweed residue.
Development: The Hellbreakers here aren’t sure 
where any captured Riotmongers are being kept 
within the city, but one of them overheard a soldier 
mentioning that Nayren Allurajix, the Hellknight 
currently in charge of the city, has been spending a lot 
of time near the Temple of Erastil since imprisoning 
Ildris Ruvarra. Both he and the Riotmongers might 
be kept somewhere in the temple. At the very least, 
someone stationed at the temple might be able to give 
the PCs the information they want. This points the 
PCs to Mission 5 if they don’t already know about it.
Mission 5: Temple Entrance
Moderate 9
The entrance to the city’s Temple of Erastil faces 
Saringallow’s massive graveyard. In better times, the 
building was visited by dozens of people daily, seeking 
blessings, medical attention, or emergency housing. 
Now, it serves as a makeshift prison for the former 
head priest Ildris Ruvarra. As such, it is well-guarded, 
and the PCs have to fight through the force stationed 
on the steps (at the only entrance) if they want to 
rescue those inside.
Creatures: A trio of sarglagons have been called to 
watch over the street in front of the temple. They’re 
upset about the lack of water here and would rather 
be down near the docks. Also, they’ve been forbidden 
to join the fighting at the gates to the west; the sounds 
of that close battle are driving them to distraction. 
They don’t notice the PCs approach, but fight until 
destroyed when the heroes get too close.
SARGLAGONS (3)	
CREATURE 8
Pathfinder Monster Core 89
Initiative Perception +18
Development: Once the PCs have defeated the 
sarglagons, they can proceed inside to Mission 6.
Mission 6: Temple Rescue	
Moderate 9
The main chamber of the temple would usually be 
filled with worshippers attending a sermon or the 
occasional devotee making a small offering to Old 
Deadeye. At the moment, most of the pews have been 
destroyed and much of the Erastil iconography has 
been defaced. Rooms past the main temple hold the 
most important prisoners of Saringallow’s occupation.
Creatures: With Caeto out of the city, Nayren 
Allurajix oversees the occupation from here. The 
recently revived and now fiendish Viro is also at the 
temple, hoping to have a final showdown with the PCs. 
While the two have not known each other for long, 
they work seamlessly, flanking to take down opponents, 
covering each other’s back. Nayren fights until they fall 
below 20 Hit Points. They know that if they’re killed, 
Caeto is going to be in danger, so they attempt to flee. 
Viro, on the other hand, fights to the death, as he just 
doesn’t know when to quit his vengeance.
FIENDISH VIRO AHALA	
CREATURE 7
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
FIEND
UNHOLY
Male devil warrior
Perception +14; greater darkvision
Languages Chthonian, Common, Daemonic, Diabolic; 
telepathy 100 feet
Skills Acrobatics +14, Athletics +16, Hell Lore +14, 
Intimidation +14, Religion +16, Survival +16
Str +6, Dex, +4, Con +2, Int +1, Wis +2, Cha +0
Items Hellknight plate (Treasure Vault 10), +1 flaming 
longsword
AC 24; Fort +17, Ref +13 (+16 vs. area effects), Will +14; +1 
status to all saves vs. magic
HP 115; Immunities acid, fire; Weaknesses holy 7; 
Resistances poison 7
Retributive Glare [reaction] Trigger A creature within 60 feet 
damages Viro; Effect Viro burns the one that hurt them 
with his gaze. He makes a flaming gaze Strike against 
the triggering creature. This ranged attack doesn’t 
trigger reactions, and if it’s a critical hit, the target also 
takes 1d8 persistent fire damage.

===== Page 165 =====
164
Speed 20 feet, fly 30 feet
Melee [one-action] longsword +18 (magical, versatile P), Damage 
1d8+9 slashing plus 1d6 fire
Melee [one-action] gauntlet +17 (agile, free-hand), Damage 1d4+9 
bludgeoning
Range [one-action] flaming gaze +16 (fire, magical, range 60 feet, 
unholy), Damage 2d10+3 fire
Divine Innate Spells DC 22; 4th divine wrath, translocate 
(at will); 3rd fear (at will); 2nd invisibility (self only, at 
will)
Furious Viper Cut [one-action] (magical, poison, unholy) Requirements 
Viro’s last action was a longsword Strike that dealt 
damage; Effect The sword transforms into a snake and 
bites at the target of the required Strike. The target 
takes 2d6 poison damage (DC 24 basic Fortitude save). 
On a failure, the target is also racked with terrible pain, 
becoming sickened 1 (sickened 2 on a critical failure).
Wrathful Strike [two-actions] Viro makes a longsword Strike. This 
counts as two attacks for his multiple attack penalty. 
If the Strike hits, it deals an additional die of weapon 
damage and 1d4 persistent bleed damage.
NAYREN ALLURAJIX	
CREATURE 10
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
NEPHILIM
Female nephilim Hellknight
Perception +18; low-light vision
Languages Common, Diabolic, Empyrean
Skills Athletics +21, Hell Lore +17, Intimidation +19, Religion 
+17, Warfare Lore +18
Str +7, Dex, +1, Con +5, Int +2, Wis +2, Cha +3
Items +1 Hellknight plate (Treasure Vault 10), +1 striking 
longsword, +1 striking whip, minor sturdy shield
AC 28 (30 with shield); Fort +20, Ref +16 (+19 vs. area 
effects), Will +19
HP 175
Disillusionment Whenever Nayren succeeds on a save 
against an illusion effect, they get a critical success 
instead.
Return to Battle [reaction] Trigger Nayren reaches 0 Hit Points or 
fewer; Effect The battle within the nephilim’s blood runs 
on. Nayren automatically stabilizes and gains 1 Hit Point. 
They Stand. This movement doesn’t trigger reactions.
Shield Block [reaction]
Speed 20 feet
Melee [one-action] longsword +21 (magical, versatile P), Damage 
2d8+13 slashing
Melee [one-action] fist +20 (agile, free-hand), Damage 1d4+13 
bludgeoning
Melee [one-action] whip +21 (disarm, magical, nonlethal, reach, trip), 
Damage 2d4+13 slashing
Rack the Dissidents [one-action] (divine) Frequency once per 
day; Effect Nayren’s strikes keeps them empowered 
to continue to take down rebels. For 1 minute or until 
they critically miss, the first time each round Nayren 
successfully Strikes a creature, they gain 5 temporary 
Hit Points that last for 1 round.
Silence, Heretic! [two-actions] (divine) Nayren makes a longsword 
Strike. If the attack hits, the target must succeed at 
a DC  29 Fortitude save or be unable to use auditory 
actions for 1 round. This also prevents the target from 
casting spells, with the exception of subtle spells or 
spells that don’t require the use of magical words in 
casting. On a critical failure, the duration is instead 
1 minute. Regardless of the outcome of the save, the 
target becomes temporarily immune to this ability for 
10 minutes.
Liberation Points: 
By 
freeing 
any 
captured 
Riotmongers and Ildris, the PCs gain 3 Liberation 
Points. If Nayren manages to escape, they have a 
chance to warn Caeto personally, and the PCs lose 2 
Liberation Points.
Treasure: Ildris gifts the PCs a greater staff of 
protection, a potion of flying, and a potion of 
quickness in gratitude. The Riotmongers retrieve the 
greater symbol of conflict recovered from Illcayna’s 
warshard in Chapter 7 and give it to the PCs.
Development: Either from one of the freed prisoners 
or from Nayren’s dying breath (if they’re killed), the 
PCs discover that the Hellknight sent a missive to the 
aviary atop Saringallow’s Sundries addressed to Caeto 
right before the PCs arrived at the temple. If Caeto 
TRAVELER’S SQUARE
TRAVELER’S SQUARE
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
1 SQUARE = 5 FEET
T
T

===== Page 166 =====
165
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
hears about the siege of the city, he might be able to 
prepare for a counterattack upon his return, possibly 
even bringing more troops with him. The PCs are 
advised to race to the aviary to stop that message (see 
Mission 7)!
Before they go, Ildris can offer two PCs a blessing 
of Erastil that heals them, restoring 5d8+40 Hit Points 
each.
Mission 7: Stop that Pigeon!	
Low 9
As the PCs rush toward Saringallow’s Sundries only 
a few blocks away from the temple, they can hear the 
continuing sounds of the battle at the western gates. 
The three-story-tall aviary attached to the building is 
easy to spot. Thirty feet in diameter, this tower has one 
continuous spiral staircase that runs along the wall 
from the ground floor to the top.
Creatures: Four vordines guard the base of the 
aviary stairs, while the message runner heads up to 
attach the note to a carrier pigeon. The length of the 
staircase to the top of the aviary is 100 feet. Catching 
a pigeon then takes an Interact action with a successful 
DC 22 Acrobatics check. Attaching the missive and 
throwing the pigeon out the window takes an Interact 
action each. The message runner does their best to 
remain on task, but engages any PCs that reach the 
same floor as them. Should the pigeon fly off, the PCs 
have until the beginning of the runner’s next turn to 
take the poor bird out; a carrier pigeon has an AC of 
15 and 7 Hit Points.
VORDINES (4)	
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder Monster Core 87
Initiative Perception +12
MESSAGE RUNNER	
CREATURE 7
Elite spy (Pathfinder NPC Core 5, 15)
Initiative Perception +16
Development: If the pigeon manages to get away, 
Caeto learns about the attack on Saringallow and the 
PCs lose 4 Liberation Points.
Mission 8: At a Crossroad	
Moderate 9
Within an hour of the PCs liberating the Temple of 
Erastil, the occupying forces of Saringallow grow 
desperate. Some Hellknight signifers get together to 
perform a last-ditch summoning at Crossroad Plaza in 
the center of the city. These spellcasters are consumed 
in hellfire when the ritual goes awry, creating a semi-
stable portal to Hell through which fiends begin to 
emerge. The PCs are immediately informed of the 
situation by a fellow Hellbreaker (or they might even 
witness a destructive plume of flame rise over the 
city rooftops) and must gather their troops to face 
whatever has come through.
This is a skirmish encounter, using the rules starting 
on page 158 of Battlecry! Use the map on page 162 for 
this encounter. The object of the encounter is to close 
the portal at the center of the plaza. An individual PC 
adjacent to the crater can attempt a DC 28 Arcana, 
Occultism, or Religion check as a two-action activity; a 
PC gains a +2 circumstance bonus to this check if they 
wield one of the Wonders of the Season. The PCs must 
succeed at three of these checks to fully close the portal.
PC Troops: The PCs take command of the troops 
with which they formed skirmish bonds before the 
attacks began. Though they’ve been fighting in the city 
all day, they haven’t received any additional wounds 
from their skirmish outside the city walls. However, 
if this encounter takes place on a different day than 
the skirmish outside the city walls, the troops are fully 
healed. The PCs can approach the plaza from any 
direction they wish.
Creatures: The portal has already disgorged 
dozens of hell hounds, which have formed into two 
hell hound packs. They were followed by a single 
greater hell hound and a rust devil. While ferrugons 
usually prefer corrupting mortals to fighting them, 
this one is angry that it’s been pulled through the 
portal to the mortal realm and begins smashing 
nearby structures. A few iron lampposts have been 
turned to rust when the PCs arrive. All these fiends 
fight until killed.
HELL HOUND PACK (2)	
CREATURE 8
Pathfinder Battlecry! 183
Initiative Perception +16
GREATER HELL HOUND	
CREATURE 9
Pathfinder Monster Core 194
Initiative Perception +19
FIGHTING ONE-ON-ONE
At your discretion, Caeto can accept a demand 
from the PCs that they fight without involving 
any troops. The battle still takes place in Traveler’s 
Square with the allies of both sides looking on. For 
an easier bout (though still a severe encounter), 
the PCs face Caeto and the elite coarti. For a more 
challenging fight (halfway between a severe and 
an extreme encounter), the PCs face Caeto and his 
Hellknight signifer ally.

===== Page 167 =====
166
FERRUGON	
CREATURE 12
Pathfinder Monster Core 2 100
Initiative Perception +22
Liberation Points: If the PCs fail to close the portal 
within 3 rounds, a group of flying devils escapes from 
it and disappears into the city. They lose 1 Liberation 
Point, and an additional Liberation Point for each 
additional round beyond the 3rd that the portal 
remains open.
Reward: For achieving this skirmish encounter’s 
objective, award the PCs 80 XP.
Development: If any fiends remain on the field when 
the portal is closed, their essence is violently pulled 
into the closing rift, ending the encounter. A cheer goes 
up from the assembled troops, as the danger has now 
passed.
War Yet Won
Once the PCs have closed the portal at Crossroad 
Plaza, they can perform any rescue operations in the 
city they have yet to perform. Smaller battles continue 
to rage through the streets for the next couple of days, 
but the Hellbreaker army is ultimately victorious in 
freeing Saringallow.
Afterward, celebrations commence throughout the 
city. During these festivities, the PCs get word that 
Caeto Vulaunex is on his way back to Saringallow with 
a large entourage. Scouts believe he will arrive on the 
10th of Gozran, only 2 days from now. Depending on 
how efficiently the PCs liberated the city, Caeto might 
not be aware of the extent of the Hellbreakers’ success. 
In any case, the PCs have an opportunity to ambush 
Caeto, stopping him from retaking Saringallow. The 
Riotmongers suggest that luring him into the city 
before springing the trap is likely the best bet, as the 
surrounding buildings give plenty of room to hide 
Hellbreaker forces. However, the 2 days are barely 
enough time to prepare. The PCs can perform any 
downtime activities they wish while the Hellbreakers 
and allied citizens of Saringallow establish facades to 
make it appear as if the Hellknights are still in control 
of the city.
The effectiveness of this ambush depends partially on 
the number of Liberation Points the PCs accumulated.
5 or fewer LP: Caeto isn’t fooled by any deception 
and confidently walks into the trap. The DCs to 
Influence him increase by 1 and the PCs have 1 fewer 
round to attempt influence checks. In addition, he and 
all his allies gain a +2 circumstance bonus to their 
initiative in the ensuing fight.
6 to 12 LP: Caeto is wary that something isn’t right 
when his army approaches Saringallow. The PCs have 
1 fewer round to attempt influence checks against him. 
In addition, he and all his allies gain a +1 circumstance 
bonus to their initiative in the ensuing fight.
13 to 20 LP: The PCs can successfully spring the 
ambush on Caeto, but he didn’t get to his position 
in the Hellknight by being a fool. No bonuses or 
penalties apply.
20 or more LP: Caeto is taken completely by surprise. 
The PCs have 1 additional round to attempt influence 
checks against him. In addition, he and all his allies 
take a –1 circumstance penalty to their initiative in the 
ensuing fight.
Reward: If the PCs gain at least 13 Liberation Points, 
award them 10 XP. If they gain at least 20 Liberation 
Points, award them 30 XP instead.
DAWN ON THE HORIZON
The army marching with Caeto is small compared 
to the forces the PCs faced in retaking Saringallow. 
It enters the city through the northernmost gate on 
the western wall, passes the cemetery, and arrives in 
Traveler’s Square. The Hellbreaker forces emerge from 
the woods to the west and from within the city to trap 
Caeto’s army in a pincer. However, the fighting doesn’t 
commence right away.
While Caeto is seething that the PCs have defeated 
his forces and reclaimed Saringallow, it also empowers 
him in a way, as it confirms for him the amount of 
damage the Hellbreakers can do when they fully 
disregard the law. If anything, he’s more certain than 
ever that the rebels must be defeated. Caeto gives the 
PCs one last chance to defend themselves verbally. The 
PCs can flip the opportunity on Caeto to make him 
defend his own actions since they’ve met him.
This brief pause before the battle uses the influence 
subsystem (GM Core 187). The PCs have 3 rounds 
(each of which lasts about 5 minutes) to shake Caeto’s 
confidence in his convictions.
CAETO VULAUNEX
CREATURE 11
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Self-righteous Hellknight Champion of the Godclaw
Perception +18
Will +20 (+22 vs. mental)
Discovery DC 26 Chitterwood, Hellknight, or Warfare Lore, 
DC 28 Perception, DC 28 Society
Influence Skills DC 26 Legal Lore or Warfare Lore (to 
debate the merits of Isgeri self-rule), DC 28 Deception, 
Diplomacy, or Intimidation (to shake Caeto’s confidence)
Influence 2 Caeto’s devotion isn’t as fiery as it once was. 
The DC of his champion devotion spells is reduced by 2.
Influence 4 Caeto hesitates when combat begins. He’s 
unable to use reactions for the first round of the fight.

===== Page 168 =====
167
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Influence 6 The PCs rattle Caeto. He becomes frightened 
1 when combat starts and is likely to surrender if he 
reaches 20 Hit Points or fewer.
Influence 8 The PCs undermine Caeto’s very faith in himself. 
Caeto becomes frightened 2 when combat starts. He’s 
likely to surrender if he reaches 40 Hit Points or fewer.
Resistances Caeto despises criminals and lawbreaking. 
Attempts to justify the Hellbreakers’ unlawful actions 
increase influence DCs by 2.
Weaknesses The guilt of the decade where he thought 
nothing about Isger still eats away at Caeto. Any 
statements that point out how Caeto has forgotten his 
own past or is out of touch with Isger’s current needs 
decrease the influence DC of the check by 2.
Background The twice-revived Hellknight of the Order of 
the Godclaw has large ambitions for himself and the law-
abiding Isger he envisions.
Appearance Being put through the wringer has left some 
lines and dark circles on Caeto’s face, though his eyes 
remain bright with misplaced conviction.
Personality Caeto can be charming when he wants to and 
vicious when he needs to.
Special If the PCs reveal to Caeto his forgotten connection 
with Sephone the diabolist, the Hellknight is so utterly 
shocked that he begins the ensuing combat as stunned 1.
Reward: If the PCs gain at least 4 Influence Points 
during this encounter, award them 10 XP. If they gain 
at least 6 Influence Points, award them 30 XP instead.
THE CLAWS OF ISGER	
SEVERE 9
After 15 minutes of tense discussion, Caeto signals for 
his troops to attack. He wants to end this revolution 
once and for all, and knows that the PCs are the face 
of it. Caeto’s forces are at the northwestern part of 
the map, while the PCs are directly opposite. As the 
PCs fight Caeto, the other Hellbreakers engage with 
the bulk of Caeto’s army just outside the square. Use 
the map on page 164 for this encounter.
This is a skirmish encounter, using the rules 
starting on page 158 of Battlecry! The objective 
of the encounter is to defeat Caeto or cause him to 
surrender; once this happens, Caeto’s forces lay down 
their arms. However, if all the PCs are reduced to 0 Hit 
Points or killed, Caeto’s forces run roughshod over the 
remainder of the Hellbreakers army.
The Gallows: Traveler’s Square features an old 
gallows as a reminder of the city’s bleak history (as 
marked on the map). It hasn’t had a noose for years, 
and the platform shakes with each step taken on it. A 
troop can’t occupy the same space as the gallows, but 
when a Large or smaller creature steps onto one of the 
two 5-foot-by-5-foot trapdoors, the entire structure 
falls apart. Each creature on the gallows falls 10 feet 
and takes 3d8 piercing damage (DC 28 basic Reflex 
save) from splintering wood. The space of the gallows 
then counts as difficult terrain.
PC Troops: The PCs command the same troops they 
led during Saringallow’s liberation. Since a few days 
have passed, these troops are fully healed.
Creatures: Caeto commands one of the Hellknight 
cavalry brigades, while the signifer who accompanies 
him commands the other. He secured an intimidating-
looking aurocan to bolster his forces, and the construct 
stomps through the PCs’ troops when possible. An 
elite coarti is also part of Caeto’s entourage; they fly 
above the combat and swoop down to strike at the 
most vulnerable.
AUROCAN	
CREATURE 8
Page 223
Initiative Perception +16
ELITE COARTI	
CREATURE 8
Pathfinder Monster Core 6, 87
Initiative Perception +19
HELLKNIGHT CAVALRY BRIGADES (2)	
CREATURE 8
Pathfinder NPC Core 93
HELLKNIGHT SIGNIFER	
CREATURE 10
Mage knight (Pathfinder NPC Core 94)
Initiative Perception +21
CAETO VULAUNEX	
CREATURE 11
Page 238
Initiative Perception +18
Reward: For defeating Caeto at last, award the PCs 
120 XP.
Concluding the Adventure
Defeating 
Caeto, 
whether 
by 
knocking 
him 
unconscious, killing him, or accepting his surrender, 
results in his allies and forces surrendering immediately 
or fleeing. With the Hellknights no longer threatening 
the Hellbreakers’ existence, the rebellion can finally 
operate out in public in peace. It’s time to begin the 
long political road of fully extracting Isger from 
Cheliax’s rule and establishing its new government.
In a gesture to walk away from the past, the 
Hellbreakers implore those who would join them to 
seek them out not in Elidir, but in Saringallow. For 
now, the PCs should savor their victory as the rays of a 
spring sun shine ever hopeful down upon the highlands 
between the Aspodell and Menador Mountains.

===== Page 169 =====
168

===== Page 170 =====
169
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
The PCs should be level 10 at the end of the 
Hellbreakers Adventure Path, having faced the many 
political and supernatural crises of Isger. The players 
are primed to continue their PCs’ adventures in the 
next Adventure Path, Hell’s Destiny, but there’s plenty 
to be done if the players wish to continue in Isger.
Campaign Consequences
The following scenarios happen if the PCs fail to 
defeat certain enemies or achieve their objectives.
REIGN OF THE WIGHT MOTHER
Should Illcayna succeed in her ritual, she becomes the 
mortal herald of Urgathoa and restores the might of 
the warshard embedded in her chest. This turns her 
into a powerful mythic being who quickly takes over 
Isger as she weaves a curse of undeath into the very 
bones of the nation, transforming it into a tribute state 
for Urgathoa. The goblins of the Chitterwood burrow 
deep underground, while those above ground are 
forced to flee or perish as fodder for Illcayna’s endless 
army of wights. Isger is at last free from Cheliax’s 
devilish grasp only to find itself bound by a different 
type of tyrant.
Ironically, Illcayna’s greatest enemy might be 
another terrible force of undeath: the Whispering 
Tyrant, Tar‑Baphon. Tar-Baphon is displeased to find 
a rival for world domination, especially since they use 
similar methods of manipulating undeath, and plots to 
raise Whispering Way supporters against Illcayna. He 
also sends spies and infiltrators into the camps of his 
own enemies to manipulate them into taking down the 
Wight Mother for him, hoping his foes will weaken 
each other enough to allow him to destroy them all in 
one fell swoop.
Kinza (passionate female human cleric 6), a 
descendant of the original Isgeri tribes, suggests 
seeking warshards to aid in striking down Illcayna. 
The Hellbreakers League knows the approximate 
location of one: the very warshard they gave the Eagle 
Knights in exchange for their alliance, which went 
missing along with its carriers in the town of Falcon’s 
Hollow in Darkmoon Vale.
An unexpected ally is Caeto Vulaunex himself. 
Horrified and chastened by the chaos unleashed by 
his refusal to prioritize the people over his ambitions, 
he dedicates himself to Illcayna’s defeat in repentance. 
The Hellknight has little support from Cheliax, which 
is cutting its losses to focus on other parts of the 
growing war, but he’s stalwart in his devotion to seeing 
Illcayna’s downfall and more open to compromise 
than previously. Caeto is able to utilize his Chelaxian 
connections to learn of other warshards rumored to 
lie in the Iron Rose palace in the Menador Mountains 
and one embedded in a mysterious aquatic creature in 
the Conerica River.
THE KNIGHT STEWARD
In the event that the PCs fail to defeat Caeto in 
Saringallow, he quickly amasses the forces and 
authority to crush the Hellbreakers League leadership 
in one swift blow. Saringallow is swept up in a wave of 
brutal interrogations, weeding out anyone with even 
the slightest sympathy for rebels. The most prominent 
leaders are transported back to Elidir, where a public 
execution is held for each individual rebel leader every 
week so as to draw out anyone foolish and loyal 
enough to attempt a rescue. The Riotmongers are 
saved for last and executed together in a small show 
of kindness from Caeto.
Ardano Grizzi III (exacting male human governor 
12) is chosen as the new steward of Isger. Unlike 
Hedvend, Ardano is ruthlessly efficient and has little 
love for finery or the spoiled elites. He quickly purges 
the government of anyone he deems too soft and 
promotes officials of his own choice such as Reverine 
Hallowell (cunning female human politician 9) and 
Justiro Adama (precise male gnome machinist 10). 
His rule is severe to make up for the recent chaos and 
even the elites of Elidir find themselves stifled under 
his iron hand.
The Hellbreakers are broken, but their story doesn’t 
end. The numerous allies they made and the people 
they helped remember who it was that truly cared 
for and defended Isger in its time of need. The image 
of a rose growing through Abrogail Thrune’s broken 
crown becomes a widespread symbol of resistance, 
along with an anti-Caeto version popular in the 
countryside that depicts his cracked face with thorny 
roses bursting through it. In this bleak present, hope is 
still alive, as are the PCs, and it will persevere as they 
continue to fight oppression.
Continuing the 
Campaign

===== Page 171 =====
170
Further Adventures
The following scenarios are potential storylines 
contingent upon the PCs successfully completing the 
objectives of the adventure.
HELL’S DESTINY
While Isger still has plenty of adventure left, PCs 
who wish to continue the fight against Cheliax can 
transition into the next Adventure Path, Hell’s Destiny. 
In this campaign, the PCs join various factions such as 
Andoran and Ravounel to directly confront Cheliax 
and mount an attack against its hellish forces as their 
enemy prepares their most diabolical plan yet.
REPAIRING THE CAPITAL
Elidir suffered great damage from the PCs’ escape and 
is still in the hands of Hellknights. The Hellbreakers 
League must negotiate a surrender from maralictor 
Lucia Devona (serious female human Hellknight 
10), whom Caeto left in charge in his absence. Even 
if Caeto survived and surrendered, Lucia refuses to 
give in and must be persuaded via a thorough legal 
battle or trial by combat. Killing Lucia is an option, 
but this foments deep fear and resentment among the 
pro-Cheliax elites and makes them more likely to stage 
their own eventual rebellion.
Even without Cheliax’s direct intervention, there are 
plenty of loyal Chelaxians determined to bring down 
the Hellbreakers League and restore fiendish order 
so they can continue to benefit off a government that 
cares more about appeasing its patrons than helping 
its people. Cygnetus Frawn (flamboyant nonbinary 
human dandy 9) prances about the city bemoaning its 
fall from glory, lamenting the lack of riches Elidir once 
had and besmirching the name of the Hellbreakers as 
much as they can. Nerina Halfsong (spoiled female 
dromaar socialite 10) demands reparations for all 
the destruction the Hellbreakers wrought on the city, 
starting with throwing her a birthday ball since hers 
was canceled thanks to Hellbreaker-inspired riots. 
Priest Vindictus Ricci (fanatical male human priest 
8) protests daily outside the cathedral of Asmodeus, 
crying out that the Hellbreakers have sinned against 
their patron deity and will bring destruction to Isger. 
These elites, while petty and frivolous, hold most of 
Elidir’s (and therefore the nation’s) wealth and have 
substantial influence over the direction of the city.
SEEKING WOE
When Illcayna is defeated, the PCs find a potion of 
shared memories in her possession. Drinking the 
potion reveals a memory of Illcayna finding a magically 
hidden message in the mural of winter in the Grotto of 
the Sacrificed, leading to a vision of the fourth Wonder 
of the Seasons, Woe.
The vision details an icy figure in the mountains 
wearing a mantle of snowflakes. The PCs can seek 
Woe in the Menador Mountains, where it’s currently 
in the possession of a powerful winter hag named 
Zamoranna (artistic female hag 10). Zamoranna 
desires to preserve the beauty of the world and ignore 
the ugliness of humanoid societies. Believing people are 
most beautiful when they’re happy, she visits villages 
and takes in travelers, lavishing them with gifts and 
working to help people gain their heart’s desires only 
to freeze them into solid ice sculptures at the height 
of their happiness. Her icy mountain lair is filled with 
dozens of such frozen art pieces.
WOE	
ITEM 10
UNIQUE
MAGICAL
 RELIC
WATER
Aspects water
Usage worn; Bulk L
Little is known about the origins of this wintry cloak of 
snowflakes, which functions as a living mantle but with 
snow instead of plants.
Minor Gifts: monsoon curtain, tidal crash
Major Gifts: bottomless reservoir, flowing footsteps
Grand Gift: ripples and waves
THE IRON QUEEN
Lady Kaltessa Iyis has made Isger her domain for 
centuries, biding her time to perfect her plans. She 
isn’t pleased to learn the nation has been taken by a 
group of rebellious upstarts. While she doesn’t directly 
intervene, she sets her agents to work on unraveling 
the authority of the Hellbreakers League, forcing them 
into a position that better serves Mammon’s desires.
The first of these agents is Niceforo Zikka (stern 
male human champion of Mammon 12), a financier 
who petitions for a seat in government as the treasurer. 
Niceforo is upfront about his intentions to see Isger 
profit off its new independence and won’t take no 
for an answer, swaying citizens to support him lest 
Isger fall into financial disaster after detaching from 
Cheliax. His true motive is to disseminate coins 
from Erebus throughout Isger’s population via the 
bank, organically spreading his master’s influence 
throughout the region through trade and market.
Petricca Segracci (ostentatious female nephilim crime 
boss 10) is another lackey of Kaltessa’s, paid to attack 
shipments and starve the nation of incoming resources 
to keep the Hellbreakers busy while the priestess sets 
up her plans. Kaltessa also has connections to the 
Druman merchant Silgrey Dawnsleeve (ambitious 
female dwarf capitalist 9), who owns swaths of Isgeri

===== Page 172 =====
171
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
land and plans to own more on behalf of the Prophecies 
of Kalistrade. Silgrey works with Petricca to lower the 
costs of settlements so she can easily purchase land 
while promising a portion 
to Kaltessa.
FRACTURED ARMY
Not all are eager to accept 
Isger’s new direction. Its 
official military splinters 
into several factions, with 
only one electing to accept 
Isger’s 
new 
leadership. 
Commander Nil Harovin 
(militaristic male human 
soldier 12) leads one such 
faction, the Blazing Sword, striking 
at Elidir before the Hellbreakers can cement their 
position there. Nil believes that the Hellbreakers are 
too soft to properly lead the country and determines 
that military governance is the only appropriate 
answer. He is backed by the noble Vittoria Legoto 
(churlish female human aristocrat 10), who hopes to 
become Isger’s new governor. Vittoria’s funding and 
social status keeps Elidiran socialites in check as the 
Blazing Sword attempts to take hold of the capital and 
declare itself the new leaders of Isger.
Other factions become bands of roving bandits, 
preying on the chaos of change, while others yet turn 
to vigilantism, untrusting of the new order. Captain 
Carista Frey (charismatic female human soldier 9) 
leads the largest vigilante group, the True Army, and 
refuses to join any forces led by revolutionaries.
HELLISH REMNANTS
Though Cheliax is formally detached from Isger, its 
hellish claws dug deep into the very bones of the nation’s 
structure and society, and its influence remains strong. 
Most notably, the Sisterhood of the Golden Erinys has 
an impeccable reputation and holds substantial social 
power. Even if Isger is free, these nuns have a mission: 
to spread the faith of Asmodeus and care for orphans 
in need of their deity’s strict and vengeful guidance. In 
fact, there are plenty of new orphans for them to care 
for in the aftermath of the undead uprising that Caeto 
neglected to address.
PCs may wish to oust the Sisterhood from Isger, 
along with all traces of Asmodeus, or they might 
partner with them. Sister Marcella (pious human monk 
6) comes forward as the Sisterhood’s representative 
and beseeches the PCs to allow the Sisterhood to 
continue their charitable work, swearing the Sisters’ 
allegiance is to Asmodeus and not to Cheliax. She is 
willing to sign a (non-magical) contract to formalize 
the agreement and concedes to most stipulations 
unless they directly interfere with her faith’s 
practices. In return for the 
Sisterhood’s 
continued 
existence, she offers a prize: 
the location of a small 
warshard at a nunnery in 
the Aspodell Mountains, 
where the stone’s presence 
has mutated a herd of stony 
goats in the Sisters’ care 
into living dawnsilver.
Should the PCs prefer to 
oust the Sisters, most go 
without protest except for 
Sister Kavinna (fanatical female human 
nun 10), who rallies pious Asmodeans against the 
new governors of Isger and demands that Asmodeus 
be formally named the patron deity of Isger. If her 
demands aren’t met, she begins kidnapping children 
to indoctrinate them to the ways of Asmodeus, 
determined to fulfill her duties to her deity no matter 
the cost.
SCORCHHOME RELATIONS
As the dust settles, the goblins of the Chitterwood 
formally 
name 
their 
region 
Scorchhome 
and 
declare it a free and independent nation. There are 
tensions amongst the goblinoids on whether to trust 
humanoids and establish a formal alliance or keep to 
themselves. Brakknap prefers to see all ancestries unite 
and suggests the PCs destroy the bigoted and violent 
organization of the Isgeri Slayers as a show of good 
faith. The PCs can easily track down disparate groups 
of Isgeri Slayers to stamp out the organization, but the 
real issue lies in resolving the wounds of the past that 
have manifested into such a hateful response.
Some goblins request that the PCs establish a 
formal holiday to celebrate the alliance of goblinoids 
and humanoids in Isger, as goblins did much to fight 
against both Cheliax’s forces and the undead invasion. 
The passing of Bounty’s Light between the two groups 
could be reestablished as a tradition, or a new way to 
highlight peace might be implemented. Here are some 
suggestions.
•	 A festival (the goblins suggest a pickle festival)
•	 Replanting trees in the Chitterwood
•	 A day of reconciliation
•	 Educational reforms
All in all, peace is still a work in progress for 
Isger as it recovers from the undead scourge and the 
aftereffects of Cheliax’s neglectful rule.
Mural of Winter

===== Page 173 =====
172

===== Page 174 =====
173
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Known throughout the Inner Sea Region as a vassal 
state under the thumb of Cheliax, Isger is poised on 
the brink of a major milestone. With recent events, 
the nation could either gain its full independence or 
have its spirit thoroughly crushed by those who claim 
to be its betters. After centuries of being controlled 
by one nation or another, many of the Isgeri people 
are just one small push away from rising up en masse 
against House Thrune. But such an event wouldn’t be 
without bloodshed, and Isger is still healing from its 
recent internal conflict with the goblinoid residents 
of the Chitterwood. Another war could leave Isger a 
broken husk, ripe pickings for yet another nation to 
consume.
History
Like many areas of Avistan, the land that would 
become Isger was occupied by Kellid tribes for 
thousands of years. These hardy people roamed the 
plains, hunted in the hills, and fished in the rivers as 
a way of life. There were 11 tribes in all, collectively 
known as the Isgeri, who lived off the land between the 
Menador Mountains and the Five Kings Mountains. 
When these tribes met regularly with one another to 
trade and intermingle, they did so at the confluence of 
rivers close to where the city of Elidir would be built. 
When conflicts between the tribes couldn’t be settled 
at this moot, they would occasionally result in battles, 
though one tribe never fully conquered another.
This all ended in 2133 ar when Taldor’s Seventh 
Army of Exploration marched into the region and 
claimed it as their own. The Isgeri fought back, but 
their tenacity was no match for the sheer size of 
Taldor’s army. The land was conquered and its people 
subjugated, though the newfound country was named 
Isger in their honor—no consolation to the Kellids 
killed in battle. Taldor ruled over Isger for almost 
2,000 years until Cheliax won its own independence 
in the Even-Tongued Conquest of 4081. Shortly after, 
Cheliax acquired Isger by force as the first vassal state 
of a burgeoning empire.
Isger experienced relative peace for the next few 
centuries, but the Chelaxians eventually got greedy 
and encroached upon the Chitterwood in an attempt 
to take it for themselves. What initially began as 
self‑defense soon grew into all-out war as bloodthirsty 
hobgoblin warlords, who only needed an excuse for 
conflict, used the goblin tribes of the Chitterwood to 
form a massive army. Fed up with their mistreatment 
at the hands of humans, many of these goblinoids 
were happy to enlist, but an equal number were 
conscripted by force.
The Goblinblood Wars began in 4697 and lasted 
for four years. The deaths of thousands of Isgeri 
citizens were accompanied by untold property 
damage as the goblin hordes moved north across the 
Conerica River and toward the foothills of the Five 
Kings Mountains. Only an unlikely alliance between 
Cheliax’s Hellknights, Druma’s Mercenary League, 
and Andoran’s Eagle Knights halted the offensive. 
These groups set the edges of the Chitterwood aflame, 
and though the forest wasn’t completely burned down, 
its size was greatly reduced. Since that time, many 
goblins have reemerged from the caves they hid within 
to reclaim their forest.
In the aftermath of the war, the Church of Asmodeus, 
with the support of House Thrune—the current rulers 
of Cheliax—enacted programs to help those affected 
by the fighting. These acts weren’t of pure charity; 
the wounded were cared for by Asmodean priests in 
exchange for future favors. Orphaned children were 
placed in newly built orphanages run by a group called 
the Sisterhood of the Golden Erinys that has spent the 
last two decades indoctrinating those children into 
their faith. Many Isgeri citizens felt grateful for this 
support and became more loyal to Cheliax while their 
prejudice against goblinoids waned and waxed.
The Godsrain ignited a spark of revolution in the 
hearts of some of Isger’s citizenry. They saw how even 
the mightiest of gods could be laid low and began to 
Isger
ISGER FACTS
Capital: Elidir (11,900)
Founding Date: 2133 ar
Ruler: Hedvend VI, Steward of Isger
Main Peoples: Gnome, Goblin, Human (Taldan)
Languages: Common, Diabolic, Gnomish, Goblin
Religions: Asmodeus, Erastil, Milani
Resources: Livestock/hides, lumber, textiles

===== Page 175 =====
174
wonder if it was possible to throw off Cheliax’s yoke. 
A group called the Hellbreakers League became the 
forefront of this dissidence, having 
discovered a warshard—a piece of 
the dead god Gorum—and used it as 
a rallying symbol. This displeased 
Her Infernal Majestrix Abrogail 
Thrune II of Cheliax, who’s been 
seeking these implements of power for 
her own. She recently sent a contingent of 
Hellknights of the Order of the Rack to 
root out the Hellbreakers League in 
the city of Breachill. After weeks 
of occupation, the Andoren 
government sent retired Eagle 
Knight 
Reginald 
Cormoth 
to intervene on behalf of 
Breachill’s 
council. 
He 
was 
publicly executed by the Hellknights, who 
claimed without evidence that he was an enemy spy. 
It eventually led to a massive clash in the fields near 
Citadel Altaerein that has come to be known as the 
Battle of Hellknight Hell. Some say it’s the first salvo 
of an all-out war between Cheliax and Andoran.
At a Glance
Isger is a temperate country bounded by the River 
Keld and the Aspodell Mountains to the south, the 
Menador Mountains to the north, and the Five Kings 
Mountains to the east. It shares borders with Cheliax, 
Andoran, Druma, and Molthune, though the most 
direct routes to Molthune must pass through the 
northern mountains. Its geography is mostly plains 
and hills, with the Chitterwood being the nation’s 
largest forest. The Conerica River, a major corridor 
of trade, runs through the center of Isger and forms 
a major part of its western border. The Conerica is 
fed by the North Conerica River, which joins with the 
Summerun River at the capital of Elidir.
Isger is a vassal state of Cheliax and must abide 
by its laws and decrees. Hedvend VI (sniveling male 
human aristocrat 9) is the latest in a long line of 
stewards appointed by the Chelaxian government to 
oversee Isger. The nation is required by Cheliax to 
maintain a standing army to protect the important 
routes but receives little money, material support, 
or training from Cheliax to do so. The Isgeri army 
consists of volunteer recruits and watches over travel 
on the Conerica River as well as the borders of Druma 
and Andoran. Since the Battle of Hellknight Hill, most 
soldiers have been pulled back to protect Elidir.
Most of the people of Isger are human, the majority 
being either of Taldan or Kellid descent. The next 
biggest bloc of population are goblins, with most of 
them residing in the Chitterwood. Surprisingly, gnomes 
are plentiful in Isger, thanks in part to the gnome 
settlement of Umok. Other ancestries and ethnicities 
are present throughout the nation, concentrated 
mostly in the riverside cities.
Government
Isger is ruled by a steward appointed by Cheliax 
who oversees the nation and its trade. However, 
the elites of Isger are often preoccupied 
with the trade along the Conerica 
River and neglect any settlements 
outside the capital. Therefore, 
most 
towns 
and 
villages 
are self-governed with little 
interference from the wider 
government. Sheriffs, mayors, 
and guards take up civic duties for 
those forgotten by their own rulers.
Religion
As a vassal of Cheliax, Isger’s patron deity is 
Asmodeus, but other deities are quietly worshipped as 
well. Abadar has the second greatest following, and 
Milani has grown popular with rebels and freedom 
fighters who chafe against Cheliax’s boot. Urgathoa 
has a small but strong presence thanks to her servant 
Illcayna Alonnor (malevolent female daughter of 
Urgathoa 9) making a stronghold for undead forces in 
the countryside. Her servants work in the shadows of 
the nation to bring about her nefarious plans.
Asmodeus is popularly worshipped by those loyal 
to Cheliax, but otherwise, Erastil is popular among 
the Isgeri countryside. His edicts of taking care of 
community resonate with those who lost so much and 
wish to rebuild. Many towns have shrines to Erastil, 
though they always have a larger one for Asmodeus just 
in case the authorities ever come around.
In the capital, an old temple of Nocticula has become 
a focal point in the great clash between Nocticula’s old 
followers from her incarnation as a demon and her 
newer converts who revere her current incarnation as 
the Redeemer Queen.
Culture and Society
Isger is a land full of contradictions. The ultrarich 
dwell in the capital city, where they live lavishly at the 
height of excess. More about Elidiran culture can be 
found on page 192. Most of those who dwell outside 
the capital are humble, rustic people still struggling to 
recover from the Goblinblood Wars and deal with the 
consequences of that terrible conflict.
Hellknight Helmet

===== Page 176 =====
175
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Those in small cities and large towns like Saringallow 
can afford some luxuries thanks to traveling merchants. 
Those in the countryside have no such luck and have 
become stubborn and resilient to survive. As those who 
have survived war and vowed to never face such loss 
again, these rural areas have fostered a strong sense of 
community. Neighbors tend to lend a hand without 
being asked and without expecting thanks, simply 
doing what needs to be done.
Spices are expensive for the countryside, making 
for bland meals. The typical Isgeri (outside Elidir) 
prefers an unsalted meal and will wrinkle their nose 
at heavily spiced cuisine. Porridges, roast chicken, 
and salads are common.
Fashion is usually the last thing on the mind of an 
Isgeri farmer, yet it’s still an important function of life. 
Hats are vital to keep the sun and wind from one’s 
eyes, and scarves protect from dust and cold. Those 
who are more fashion-forward dye their hats bright 
colors and decorate them with twigs and flowers, while 
knitters take pride in their families’ elaborate scarves. 
Symbols are often subtly woven into clothing, such as 
certain flowers for good luck or skulls to indicate hard 
times. Coloring one’s nails with a local flower’s dye 
has become popular, though such lacquers must be 
tough to withstand a full day’s labor.
Loyalty to Cheliax is mixed. Some fear and hate 
the patron nation, seeing it as the source of most of 
their troubles. Others can’t deny the good Cheliax did 
in the aftermath of the Goblinblood Wars and view 
the Church of Asmodeus positively, seeing both them 
and Cheliax as benevolent benefactors. Many young 
women were raised and indoctrinated by the Sisters of 
the Golden Erinys, who have a strong presence in the 
countryside. While some see such “charity” as a scam, 
no one can deny that Cheliax did help those in need.
Notable Figures
Alceo Demetrias (wise male aiuvarin human cleric of 
Milani 7) and Phoebe Demetrias (righteous female 
human commander 7) are the rebellious leaders of the 
Hellbreakers League, an organization formed to free 
Isger. More about them can be found on page 244.
Brakknap (haunted male goblin oracle 4) is a 
goblin elder working toward restoring humanoid 
and goblinoid relations. More information about 
Brakknap can be found on page 236.
The Isgeri Army is led by General Harwin Balefellow 
(principled male soldier 10), a stern man caught 
between his morals and his duty. Harwin is frustrated 
by the state of Isger but follows orders to a fault, 
secretly hoping for change yet unwilling to be the one 
to bring it about.
Hedvend VI has ruled Isger for decades, and his 
legacy won’t be a proud one. The ramifications of his 
decision to ignore the plight of the countryside during 
the Goblinblood Wars still echo throughout Isger to 
this day in the form of permanently wounded veterans, 
innumerable orphans, and towns completely wiped 
from the map. It’s well known that Hedvend cares 
only about pleasing Cheliax and is happy to let the rest 
of the nation fester so long as the elites are satisfied 
with their spoils.
The powerful daughter of Urgathoa, Illcayna 
Alonnor, has been working her machinations in 
the countryside for decades, infesting the land with 
undead. Her plans have largely run unhindered, 
thanks to the government’s lack of interest in the rural 
areas. More information about Illcayna can be found 
on page 242.
Lady Kaltessa Iyis (mysterious female human 
priestess of Mammon 20) is a seemingly immortal 
priestess of Mammon who has lived in the Menador 
Mountains for an uncounted period of time. 
Surrounded by devilish servants, she watches over the 
nation from her fortress while she plots on behalf of 
her master. These devils and her unnaturally long life 
are the result of an infernal pact with the archdevil 
Mammon as part of Kaltessa’s designs on ruling Isger, 
and perhaps one day, Cheliax as well. Her devotion to 
Mammon instead of Asmodeus makes her somewhat 
of a rogue element within the borders of Cheliax, so 
she plots and schemes from hundreds of miles away. 
With her acquisition of a warshard after the Godsrain 
and rising tensions between Cheliax and Andoran, 
Lady Iyis the Widow Queen is poised to make her 
move any day now.
For decades while the countryside was riddled with 
strife, Mama Grimclaw (devious female iron hag 9) 
had easy pickings among the numerous children left 
orphaned by the Goblinblood Wars. She keeps her 
victims hidden in a small town shielded from scrying 
magic. Illusions surround the town, ensuring that 
travelers pass by without a thought. In recent years, 
improvements in village sheriffs and security have 
made it more challenging for the hag to find victims, 
but Mama Grimclaw simply orders her current 
children to cause distractions so she can snatch up 
their newest sibling. Villages are coming to be aware 
of her brand of terror and warn their children to be 
good or the nightmare witch will get them—though 
Mama Grimclaw cares not for how good a child is, 
only that they’re easy to kidnap. Now, with the chaos 
of potential war sowing discord and fear throughout 
the nation, Mama Grimclaw has found plenty of new 
opportunities to prey on the vulnerable.

===== Page 177 =====
176
The most influential member among the Sisters of 
the Golden Erinys is Sister Marcella (pious human 
monk 6), an unassuming elderly woman who’s served 
the church of Asmodeus since she was a child. As the 
grand overseer of the sisterhood’s charities, she has 
great influence over the countryside thanks to the 
sisters’ stellar reputation. Marcella loves children and 
can often be found reading infernal passages from 
religious tomes to children too young to understand 
what they mean.
Varskand Gilwrad (vengeful male human bigot 8)
is a veteran of the Goblinblood Wars and one of the 
founders of the notorious Isgeri Slayers. He lost his 
home and his left eye to hobgoblin raiders and has 
never forgiven goblinkind for its sins against him. 
Varskand sees himself and his gang as crusaders, doing 
the work no one else will by taking up the sword to 
enact justice that the government has failed to serve. He 
works hard to pass off the Isgeri Slayers as a legitimate 
organization of mercenaries and adventurers rather 
than what they truly are: angry bigots.
Notable Locations
With small villages and farmsteads dotting the 
landscape, Isger is full of locations to visit or explore. 
Below are a few of the country’s most interesting or 
important locations.
Breachill: This small town is relatively young 
compared to other Isgeri settlements. Situated in 
the shadow of the Five Kings Mountains, its origins 
are similarly shrouded in mystery, as the first people 
found there in 4520 ar were 50 humans with no 
memory of who they were or how they got there. A 
passing wizard named Lamond Breachton discovered 
this outpost and helped its lost inhabitants build 
up their camp into a full-fledged town. Though he 
couldn’t uncover their past, the grateful villagers 
named the town after him. As Breachill’s population 
grew over the years, Lamond Breachton remained 
to guide them in a paternal fashion until he one 
day disappeared. The townsfolk erected a statue in 
his honor and continued his legacy of benevolence. 
Breachill’s peaceful populace attracted the attention 
of the newly formed Hellknight Order of the Nail, 
who built their citadel 10 miles northeast of the town 
in 4638. Though they were lured to Korvosa by Queen 
Domina only 44 years later, the citadel still stands. 
In recent months, rumors spread that Breachill 
was harboring members of the Hellbreakers League, 
and Hellknights from the Order of the Rack quickly 
  Citadel Altaerein 
 Citadel Altaerein 
  Iron Rose 
 Iron Rose 
 • Finder’s Gulch
 • Finder’s Gulch
 • •
 Good  Home
 Good  Home
Saringallow •
Saringallow •
Stumpfield  •
Stumpfield  •
Swiftrun 
Swiftrun 
 • •
Breachill  •
Breachill  •
Gillamoor  •
Gillamoor  •
Haugin’s Ear  •
Haugin’s Ear  •
 • Logas
 • Logas
 • Dustpawn
 • Dustpawn
 • Twin Horns
 • Twin Horns
 •  • 
Merrywim
Merrywim
 • Vordia
 • Vordia
 • Fernsby
 • Fernsby
 •Umok
 •Umok
  Wolfpoint
 Wolfpoint
  Citadel Dinyar
 Citadel Dinyar
Chitterwood
Chitterwood
 Elidir
 Elidir
Men
ador 
Mount
ains
Men
ador 
Mount
ains
Co
nerica R
iver
Co
nerica R
iver
C
onerica
 Rive
r
C
onerica
 Rive
r
Asp
odel
l M
ou
nta
in
s
Asp
odel
l M
ou
nta
in
s
Isger
O
250
250
MILES
MILES

===== Page 178 =====
177
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
occupied the town. These Hellknights established 
strict curfews and other laws, much to the dismay of 
the Breachill town council. Councilor Greta Gardania 
(passionate female human councilor 1) in particular 
was incensed by this overreach from Cheliax and sent 
secret missives to all neighboring countries, asking for 
help. Eventually Andoran responded, sending retired 
Eagle Knight general Reginald Cormoth to effect a 
diplomatic solution. The Hellknights executed him for 
meddling in their affairs, setting off a chain of events 
that culminated in the bloody Battle of Hellknight Hill 
in the fields between Breachill and Citadel Altaerein. 
Andoran’s forces won the day, and now Breachill must 
deal with the aftermath of the fight.
Chitterwood: This old-growth forest is home to 
many tribes of goblins, though markedly fewer since 
the end of the Goblinblood Wars. Far more dangerous 
creatures lurk among the trees. Detailed information 
about the Chitterwood can be found in the article 
starting on page 180.
Citadel Altaerein: Only a short distance from 
Breachill, this Hellknight citadel was built as the 
base of operations for the Order of the Nail before 
they moved to Korvosa in 4682. The building housed 
fewer than three dozen Hellknights for the following 
decades until it was completely abandoned in 4711. 
Goblins moved into the lower and basement levels of 
the citadel in 4717, but they were targeted by a cult 
of Norgorber who was defeated by a group of heroes 
only two years later. After defeating a manifestation 
of Dahak, the heroes gifted the citadel to the town of 
Breachill. However, the Godsrain brought more strife 
to the area, and when Hellknights from the Order of 
the Rack marched into Breachill, they also occupied 
Citadel Altaerein. Recently, a major battle between 
those Hellknights and Andoran’s Eagle Knights 
occurred in the surrounding area, part of which 
included a siege of the citadel. Once again, ownership 
of the fortress changed hands after the Hellknights 
were routed in the Battle of Hellknight Hill, and its 
future providence is now uncertain.
Citadel Dinyar: Located among the peaks of the 
Aspodell Mountains, this sturdy fortress serves as the 
headquarters for the Hellknight Order of the Godclaw. 
After the recent change in the deities promoted 
by this religious order and the looming threat 
of war between Cheliax and Andoran, many 
Hellknights at Citadel Dinyar have begun venturing 
forth into the countryside with more regularity. 
Rather than demand obedience like so many other 
Hellknight orders, those who worship the pantheon 
known as the Talons of the Godclaw have been focused 
more on educating the common folk on the everyday 
benefits of an ordered and disciplined life. Friction 
with the more traditional Hellknights of the Godclaw 
has forced many of these worshippers to return to the 
citadel to ensure newly enlisted armigers aren’t overly 
influenced against their newer philosophy.
Dustpawn: The citizens of this once prosperous 
iron mining town near the Drumish border built a 
thriving industry around the town’s many goats after 
the mines were exhausted. Merchants from all over 
Isger, Druma, and Andoran regularly visit to purchase 
the town’s goat milk, butter, cheese, meat, and hides. 
This constant trade traffic also makes the caravans 
traveling the roads into and out of Dustpawn prime 
targets for bandits, many of whom make their 
hideouts in the former mining tunnels. Recently, 
Elladas Demos, a smuggler who extorted money from 
the Dustpawn government to keep bandit attacks to a 
minimum, was found decapitated in the town square. 
Some say she was targeted by House Thrune after 
spreading conspiracy theories about Abrogail II’s 
lineage. Others believe she faked her death to live a 
life of luxury in Druma after hoarding several years’ 
worth of monetary gains. Since her death, though, 
merchants have become wary of making the journey 
to Dustpawn for fear of the bandits. The town’s 
current mayor, Ruprecht Haesmith (anxious male 
human politician 1), has repeatedly sent requests for 
aid from Elidir to no avail.
Elidir: Situated at the junction where the Summerun 
River merges with the North Conerica River, Isger’s 
Haugin’s Ear

===== Page 179 =====
178
capital is a hub of trade from Molthune, Druma, and 
even from the more distant Cheliax. The city escaped 
much of the damage caused by the Goblinblood Wars, 
being over 100 miles away from the Chitterwood. 
This remoteness allowed the Isgeri government to 
continue to function normally during the conflict, 
but many soldiers and villagers now feel this safety 
was undeserved, especially since the officials and 
generals in Elidir couldn’t put an end to the war 
without help from neighboring nations. Some even 
accuse the government of dragging its feet in stopping 
the goblinoids or somehow profiting off the misery 
of the nation’s common folk. As such, the average 
Isgeri farmer tends to sneer when talking about Elidir, 
believing its residents to be no better than fools. 
Somewhat ironically, the Chelaxian government has 
similar views of Hedvend VI, Isger’s current steward. 
Though he’s served Cheliax faithfully for decades, 
many Chelaxian nobles believe the country should be 
in more capable hands. Rumors of his replacement 
have been swirling around Elidir for over five years, 
but for whatever reason, Cheliax has yet to send the 
order. Hedvend is painfully aware of this looming 
threat, and his closest allies have been encouraging 
him to act with more boldness, especially in light of the 
recent defeat of the Hellknights at Citadel Altaerein. 
More about Elidir can be found in the article starting 
on page 188.
Fernsby: A small farming village north of the 
Chitterwood, 
Fernsby 
has 
a 
slightly 
strained 
relationship with the nearby artist colony of Stumpfield. 
More information can be found on page 40.
Finder’s Gulch: Illcayna Alonnor is the undisputed 
master of this haunted place. Once a simple and remote 
quarry town, Finder’s Gulch was overrun by malicious 
undead several decades ago. Illcayna, priestess of 
Urgathoa, followed the horde of wights to establish 
a base of operations from which she has continually 
raided other Isgeri villages, Cheliax, and Molthune, all 
to grow the ranks of her undead armies. Over time, 
Illcayna wishes to turn Isger’s entire populace to the 
worship of her god, though this goal will likely need 
to be achieved by force. More about Finder’s Gulch 
and Illcayna Alonnor can be found on pages 125 and 
242, respectively.
Gillamoor: Located at the edge of the Chitterwood, 
Gillamoor survived both attacks from goblins and 
several fires that claimed much of the nearby forest, 
only to fall to a curse of undeath. As part of her 
campaign to infest all of Isger with undead, Illcayna 
Alonnor chose Gillamoor because of its tragic history 
and, consequently, its rather large graveyard. Hoping 
the town would soon be overrun with undead, she laid 
a curse on the settlement, making it so that anyone 
who perished within Gillamoor would quickly rise as 
a brain-eating zombie. To light the fuse of this mystical 
bomb, Illcayna then used her necromantic powers to 
raise a few zombies from the Gillamoor cemetery in the 
dead of night. The first death occurred hours later, and 
though the original zombies were destroyed, the chain 
reaction had already begun. Within weeks, the entire 
population of Gillamoor had perished or fled. The Isgeri 
military quarantined the area, believing the tragedy to 
have been caused by plague, but they soon abandoned 
their post when no plague could be detected.
Good Home: This small town was abandoned 
during the Goblinblood Wars and taken over by Mama 
Grimclaw, who renamed it Good Home. She raises 
her numerous kidnapped children here, shielding the 
town with magic so no one will notice it. The town 
is in working condition, with the kidnapped children 
learning to be self-sufficient so that they never have to 
leave. Travelers who wander too close are sometimes 
murdered so Mama Grimclaw can gift her children 
with their possessions.
Haugin’s Ear: The inhabitants of this quiet fishing 
village trade their daily catches, as well as cured 
fish, with passing vessels on the River Keld—mostly 
Chelaxian military and trade ships—and to miners 
panning for gold in the Aspodell foothills. A few 
families also make a living selling tamed firefoot 
fennecs, which are regarded as symbols of good luck 
by many in the region. Haugin’s Ear is named after 
an unusual 30-foot-tall outcropping of rock along the 
riverbank near its docks that resembles the half-buried 
head and ear of a giant lying on his side. Legends claim 
this stony protrusion is part of the petrified remains of 
Haugin, a flesh-eating giant who ran afoul of a Taldan 
wizard centuries ago. Occasionally, treasure hunters 
from outside Isger venture to the area in search of 
shattered pieces of Haugin, which are rumored to hold 
great power. In years past, many believed the stone head 
was somehow luring children inside, but in truth, these 
missing children were devoured by a sweet hag named 
Marjulla, who was recently discovered and slain by one 
of the visiting treasure hunters. With her dying words, 
Marjulla warned of retribution from her two sisters.
Iron Rose: With its elaborate stone arches, this 
palace flaunts its Chelaxian influence for all who 
dare to approach. Centuries ago, Lady Kaltessa Iyis 
staked her claim on a lush valley near the border of 
Druma and conscripted dozens of devils to build the 
impressive edifice she calls home. The opulent fortress 
is rumored to be filled with enough gold to buy entire 
nations, though no one has ever had the privilege to 
step inside and find out.

===== Page 180 =====
179
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Merrywim: This small riverside town was mainly 
known for its shell jewelry; beyond that, its people eked 
out a quiet living in the countryside. That all changed 
after the Godsrain. Now, the people of Merrywim 
have become rambunctious, throwing enormous 
parties nightly and often drinking until sundown. The 
realization that even a god can fall terrified the town’s 
inhabitants so much that they’ve become hedonistic 
nihilists, intent on enjoying their lives as much as they 
possibly can. However, of late the partying has had 
to stop because of a mysterious creature that’s been 
spotted in the Conerica River, something massive 
enough to be a threat to those who live ashore. A few 
brave fishers banded together to capture the beast but 
returned with only broken nets and lines. It seems that 
professional adventurers might be the solution for this 
issue, which the town is eager to address so that they 
can return to their frantic revelry.
Logas: Once the capital of Isger, the scars of the 
Goblinblood Wars, both physical and mental, can 
still be found in this riverside city’s architecture and 
citizens. Logas was continually under siege during the 
conflict, leading to a lasting distrust of goblinoids. The 
city’s current mayor, Valenia Remingward (progressive 
female human politician 2), fought in the war but 
ceased the practice of regularly firing trebuchets into 
the nearby Chitterwood and dismantled the display of 
goblin skulls along the city walls immediately after her 
appointment in 4723. These mandates caused some 
consternation among the city’s nobles, who claimed 
that Mayor Remingward’s policies would be seen as 
a sign of weakness by the goblin tribes and ignite a 
second round of hostilities. Most of their complaints 
have been silenced in the wake of recent events as 
Hellknights amass within the city, either fleeing from 
their defeat at the Battle of Hellknight Hill or arriving 
from across the Chelaxian border as reinforcements. 
Tensions run high in Logas, though the majority of its 
citizens support Chelaxian rule over Isger.
Saringallow: Centuries ago, this city began as a 
small garden estate named Sarini’s Hollow, founded 
by House Sarini of Cheliax, a minor noble house. Over 
time, it slowly grew into a village with its own farms, 
shops, and trade via the nearby river. Though it seemed 
idyllic from the outside, it harbored a sinister secret. 
The nobles of House Sarini dabbled in diabolism long 
before House Thrune rose to power, and their hideous 
rituals resulted in the deaths of several of the village’s 
young people. The citizens rebelled and hung every 
member of House Sarini they could find. The town 
was then nicknamed Sarini Gallows, which over time 
evolved into the city’s current name. The Sarini estate 
still stands as a grim warning to other Chelaxian 
nobles who might think to take advantage of the 
populace, and they ensure that noble outsiders don’t 
feel welcome, especially if their last name is Sarini. 
The city’s history is likely the reason that Hellbreakers 
League activity is most prevalent there, leading 
many to believe that Saringallow is the rebellious 
organization’s headquarters. More about Saringallow 
can be found in the article starting on page 200.
Stumpfield: Founded by goblin and human artists, 
Stumpfield is a haven for creators of all stripes. It 
relies on trading with nearby Fernsby for much of its 
practical goods. More information can be found on 
pages 30 and 39.
Swiftrun: This small village is most known for its 
priests of Erastil who teach how to homestead and 
defend one’s community. The community is nearly all 
Erastilian, with an emphasis on helping one another. 
Rather than individual gardening, the village has an 
enormous community garden that everyone takes 
turns caring for. Everything is shared in the village, 
from tools to carts, and hospitality is seen as the 
greatest virtue.
Twin Horns: This nunnery of the Sisters of the 
Golden Erinys lies in the Aspodell Mountains, quietly 
serving as a place for aspiring young women to train as 
sisters. The convent is small and its training rigorous, 
the nuns practicing both religious duties and martial 
arts from dawn to dusk. Many of the girls raised in the 
sisters’ orphanages end up traveling here to become 
nuns. Recently, the nunnery discovered a piece of a 
warshard that affected their livestock, turning their 
goats into dawnsilver.
Umok: This centuries-old gnome village has 
outlawed fire within 500 yards of its buildings due 
to past run-ins with fire-loving goblins from the 
Chitterwood. The residents now use alchemy and 
magic for heat and light. More information about 
Umok can be found on pages 30 and 36.
Vordia: After the Goblinblood Wars, the Sisters of 
the Golden Erinys and, by extension, the Church of 
Asmodeus worked hard to rebuild Vordia and take 
care of its citizens. As such, its citizens are generally 
grateful and loyal to Cheliax. Vordia is the proud 
location of one of the first orphanages built by the 
sisters after the wars. More information can be found 
on pages 30 and 32.
Wolfpoint: A reserve garrison for the Isgeri army, 
Wolfpoint has been left empty since the Battle of 
Hellknight Hill, its soldiers called to active duty in 
other parts of the country. As a result, the local river 
bandits have grown bolder and often use Wolfpoint as 
a meeting place. More information about Wolfpoint 
can be found on page 30.

===== Page 181 =====
180

===== Page 182 =====
181
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Welcome to the Chitterwood
Isger is a land of many scars, both literal and 
metaphorical, and no place better illustrates this 
quality than the once-dense hardwood forest known 
as the Chitterwood. Located in southern Isger near 
the Conerica River, the Aspodell Mountains, and the 
city of Logas, the Chitterwood has long been home 
to hundreds of goblinoid tribes. It’s also home to a 
trade route favored by smugglers. Travel through these 
woods has always been a risky affair due to the threat 
of bandits, but desperate and unsavory travelers are 
willing to traverse the Chitterwood to stay off Isger’s 
main roads.
Due to the area’s unsavory reputation, most 
preferred to avoid the Chitterwood as much as 
possible and maintained little contact with its 
goblinoid residents. This situation suddenly changed 
in 4697 ar, when hobgoblin commanders and their 
goblin armies launched a series of deadly attacks 
against Isger’s rural settlements. The Goblinblood 
Wars, as the conflicts became known, lasted for 
four intensely bloody years. Scores of goblin and 
hobgoblin forces spread across the region, leaving 
death and devastation in their wake. From Varisia to 
Taldor, entire towns were destroyed in the carnage. 
Forces from Andoran, Cheliax, and Druma allied to 
fight the threat. When the Goblinblood Wars at last 
came to an end, the victorious alliance of Drumish 
mercenaries, Eagle Knights, and Hellknights burned 
most of the Chitterwood to the ground.
Despite the massive ecological damage it sustained, 
the Chitterwood isn’t entirely devoid of fauna. Birds 
still sing, bears and boars still roam, and silk moths 
can sometimes be found munching on mulberry 
leaves. Stories of a fierce and ancient beast persist, 
said to now be a living shadow, and the beast is 
rumored to still be on the hunt.
The Caverns of the Chitterwood
The Goblinblood Wars claimed a staggering number of 
lives on all sides, but for the goblin tribes, subjugated 
by hobgoblin commanders and hunted by the 
genocidal Isgeri Slayers, the conflict brought almost 
total annihilation. With most of the Chitterwood a 
smoldering ruin, there remained only one place for 
the surviving goblins to flee: underground.
Deep beneath the remains of the Chitterwood lies a 
vast network of caverns and warrens—an ideal, if less 
than pleasant, place for a devastated people to hide, 
regroup, and rebuild. Much to the tribes’ annoyance, 
however, the caverns were already home to a number 
of creatures who weren’t exactly keen to share their 
space. The bats and rats at least proved tolerably tasty, 
but the cave bears were another story altogether; the 
People of the Swarm tribe, which already had over 
190 songs graphically describing the danger of bear 
attacks, soon added new songs specifically warning 
about cave bears.
Surviving the caverns of Chitterwood for an 
extended period is difficult for several reasons 
outside of ursine encounters. The only light to be 
found is near the cave entrances, humidity is high, 
and food is limited. Fortunately for goblins, their 
darkvision, resourcefulness, and ability to digest 
pretty much anything organic means they’re better 
suited for living in caves than most other Golarion 
residents. Goblins prefer meat when they can get 
it—rats make a good stew, and bats pickle well—but 
most of their diet in the caverns consists of fungi and 
insects, with frogs and fish occasionally rounding 
out the menu.
Every once in a while, sometimes out of boredom 
and sometimes on a dare, a cavern-dwelling goblin 
risks a trip to the world above in search of tastier 
eats or shiny new treasures. This is generally frowned 
upon by the eldest tribe members, whose parents 
and grandparents were survivors of the war; visibly 
scarred and deeply afraid, that first generation passed 
their understandable fear on to their children. Younger 
goblins who have never known life outside the caverns 
are more willing to explore the world above, even 
when not patrolling or hunting. Some particularly 
wise goblin leaders have begun the delicate process of 
reestablishing diplomatic relations with non-goblins 
to better deal with the increasing threat of undead 
roaming the countryside.
Inhabitants
Aboveground and below, the Chitterwood’s population 
is higher than many realize. While goblins represent the 
largest percentage of residents, one can also find a small 
number of hobgoblins and even non-goblinoids here.
Chitterwood

===== Page 183 =====
182
CHITTERWOOD GOBLINS
Six generations have passed for goblinoids since the 
end of the Goblinblood Wars. During that time, many, 
if not most, goblins in Isger have called the caverns of 
Chitterwood home. While tribes like the 
People of the Swarm, Spine 
Threshers, and True Hoard 
are well known, hundreds of 
goblinoid cultures live in or 
beneath the Chitterwood, only a 
few of which are presented here. 
Some traits common across goblin 
society—fear of dogs and horses, love 
of song and fire, and wariness of the 
written word—endure among the 
goblins of the Chitterwood despite 
their horrific losses and subsequent 
displacement. Significant differences 
exist, however; in the war’s aftermath, 
distinctions between cultural groups deepened as 
each dealt with the experience in their own way. The 
People of the Swarm tribe, for example, sings inspiring 
fight songs about taking revenge on their former 
hobgoblin commanders, while the Spine Threshers 
tribe excels in combat. The Hookback tribe, which 
now resides in the caves of the southern Chitterwood, 
takes its name from the particularly vicious torture it 
endured during the war. Surviving Hookback goblins 
inflicted their children with the same permanent, 
bone-deep piercings that had been forced upon them, 
transforming their pain into a symbol of survival and 
rite of passage into adulthood.
Before the Goblinblood Wars, goblins of the 
Chitterwood, like many forest goblins, tended to 
be fairly reclusive. This inclination doesn’t mean 
they weren’t dangerous when they wanted to be, 
however. Contact with non-goblinoids was generally 
limited, with the notable exception of scavenging and 
stealing from unwary travelers who passed through 
their territory. Goblin ambushes, when they did 
happen, could be as fierce as they were chaotic—a 
fact that hobgoblin commanders exploited for their 
own ends. The terror of the war reinforced the 
Chitterwood goblins’ desire to keep to themselves as 
much as possible. With virtually all of their warriors 
dead, those goblins who survived the war were left 
largely defenseless. Today, goblins typically venture 
aboveground only when necessary and preferably 
under cover of night, lest they be discovered by 
someone bigger and more dangerous.
Some smaller tribes chose not to flee to the caverns 
at all, for different reasons and with mixed results. 
The area along the burned edges of the Chitterwood 
is home to the Bulbhead tribe, whose name comes 
from their distinctive practice of wearing masks made 
from gourds. During the war, sadistic hobgoblins 
commanders forced their goblin troops to wear 
gourds filled with wasps or spiders; goblins 
reclaimed their power by wearing 
masks on their own and robbing the 
hobgoblins of their fun. The crude 
masks are of dubious help in battle, 
but Bulbhead warriors make 
formidable foes nonetheless.
 The Cinder Seekers are not 
actually a tribe at all, but rather 
an activist movement. Members 
travel throughout the Chitterwood on 
a mission to ensure that goblins never 
serve hobgoblins again. With arson as 
their weapon of choice, they take fiery 
vengeance against hobgoblins and their 
goblin collaborators.
Floods are common along the eastern edge of the 
Chitterwood, yet this area is where the tiny Mudrub 
tribe claims territory. As their name suggests, these 
goblins prefer to coat themselves in a thick layer 
of swamp muck and abhor any attempt to wash it 
off. During the war, hobgoblins punished Mudrub 
goblins by branding them with words. Survivors, 
ashamed and desperate to remove them, turned to 
burning and scarring themselves where they’d been 
branded, and eventually they began marking their 
children in a new tradition. Rejecting the written 
word, Mudrub goblins burn and scar their children 
with random patterns or images.
In some cases, the decision to not take refuge 
in the caverns has paid off. The Crookedtoes tribe 
became travelers and adventurers, journeying as far as 
Absalom and becoming valued allies to the Knights 
of Lastwall. The Dragondweller tribe has likewise 
provided aid to various human nations, earning the 
respect and protection of their allies.
BULBHEAD
Bulbhead goblins are distinguished by their iconic 
gourd helmets, a cultural fashion statement that ties 
back to the Goblinblood Wars. While the helmets were 
once used as tools of torment against these goblins, 
they now wear them with pride, having overcome the 
humiliation and pain their hobgoblin leaders inflicted 
upon them. Even babies wear tiny gourds, which are 
said to help shape their heads to be nice and round. 
This penchant for gourds also makes these goblins 
famous for pumpkin recipes such as mashed gourd 
and rat stew and caramelized pumpkin squares.
Bulbhead goblin

===== Page 184 =====
183
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
The Bulbhead goblins are loosely nomadic, living 
in tents as they move about the border of the woods. 
These tents are covered in leaves and sticks to blend in 
with the brush, granting the goblins both shelter and 
camouflage. While they might settle in one spot for a 
week or so, they never stay too long to avoid enemies 
pinning down their locations. The Bulbhead goblins 
always make sure to mark the best spots with patches 
of gourds so they can return at harvest.
Life on the edges of the Chitterwood has the Bulbhead 
goblins interacting with non-goblinoids more than 
any other goblin tribe. While the early days postwar 
had high tensions between goblins and humanoids, 
the Bulbheads have learned that humanoids can be 
either friend or foe and adapted accordingly. Bulbhead 
goblins are now known for setting up small pop-up 
stalls to trade goods from within the Chitterwood with 
merchants and abandoning said stalls the moment they 
sense danger. They’re some of the most social goblins 
around, easily haggling with traders and happily selling 
flora and fauna from deeper within the woods.
These interactions with non-goblinoids have also 
pitted the Bulbheads against the Isgeri Slayers, a 
bigoted anti-goblin organization. The Bulbheads 
loathe the Slayers and take every opportunity they 
can to humiliate them, raiding their camps and leaving 
gourds as taunts so the Slayers know exactly who 
sabotaged them. They’ll even set tents aflame with 
Slayers sleeping inside without remorse, declaring that 
war is war and so is this!
Bulbhead goblins make fierce enemies and even 
fiercer friends, happy to share their bounty with any 
who come to them with open arms. They don’t trend 
toward adventuring, but the occasional Bulbhead has 
gone off to become a daring fighter and returned with 
even better helms than gourds.
CINDER SEEKERS
The Cinder Seekers are a group of goblins determined 
to remember history and learn from its mistakes. This 
movement is small but fervent, spreading among the 
older generations of goblins. They constantly recall 
the atrocities of the Goblinblood Wars and the cruelty 
from hobgoblins against their people, and they’ve 
vowed to ensure such oppression never happens again.
History is preserved in powerful dirges about the 
wickedness of hobgoblins and the plight of goblins, 
though some would argue that these songs are highly 
biased and even bigoted. Hobgoblins are depicted 
as monstrous oppressors and all goblins as innocent 
victims, ignoring the fact that some goblin tribes were 
quite willing to join in the war against their humanoid 
neighbors. Many Cinder Seekers tend to look at all 
hobgoblins with suspicion and paranoia, sure that 
they have an agenda. The most zealous Cinder Seekers 
attack hobgoblins indiscriminately, while those wiser 
will take the time to discern one’s intentions.
The Cinder Seekers believe that the purifying force 
of fire will burn away both their enemies and the 
will to harm them, making their pyromania almost 
fanatical. The Cinder Seekers persist in hunting down 
any who might try and repeat history and burn them 
with fire to ensure the past stays in the past. If peace 
comes to the Chitterwood, it’ll likely be in spite of the 
Cinder Seekers rather than because of them.
HOOKBACK
The deep caverns beneath the Chitterwood are home 
to the Hookback tribe, where goblins distinguish 
themselves with unique piercings. The Hookback 
goblins have learned to see even in the darkest cave 
and listen for the smallest footsteps, aiding them in 
the endless shadows of the underground. Because of 
this, most Hookback goblins are reluctant to breach 
the surface with its painfully bright light, preferring to 
dwell in the shadows.
The Hookback tribe’s most meaningful practice 
stems from a tragic history of torment and pain. 
Survivors of grievous torture during the Goblinblood 
Wars were ashamed of their piercings, signs of 
weakness that they were, until a brave young goblin 
declared that they wished to be pierced as well to 
honor the pain of their people. With that, a tradition 
was born, and now all Hookback goblins take the 
piercings when they come of age.
Having lived in the deep caverns of the Chitterwood 
for several generations, Hookback goblins are expert 
foragers, scouring the dark for what little nutrition 
there is to find. They farm mushrooms and lichen as 
well as fish and newts.
The tribe sees creatures of the dark as their brethren 
and fears the light, making them the unusual goblin 
tribe that isn’t pyromaniacal. Fire is reserved for the 
creation of piercings and for special ceremonies, where 
the tribe gathers for a coming of age or to tell stories 
of the past; it’s feared and revered, the greatest light of 
all, and the one that destroyed their original homes in 
the Chitterwood. For the Hookback goblins, darkness 
is preferred to a light that burns.
MUDRUB
The small Mudrub tribe is rarely seen without a thick 
layer of muck and mud across their bodies, covering up 
the burn scars that mark them as Mudrub. They were 
once branded with words and took to fire to remove 
the evil of literacy from their bodies, turning it into

===== Page 185 =====
184
tradition to burn artful patterns into their members—
though it’s rare for strangers to see said patterns, as a 
Mudrub goblin is sure to be covered in filth. It’s a great 
sign of intimacy and respect for a Mudrub goblin to 
remove the muck on their skin and reveal their burns 
to someone.
Being a small tribe, Mudrub goblins prefer hiding to 
fighting, using their superior stealth skills to slink into 
the muddy banks and lie still until danger has passed. 
The thick coating of muck hides their scent, and they 
have no issue with waiting for hours in a comfortable 
spot. Few Mudrub goblins adventure outside of their 
home domain, uncomfortable anywhere their muddy 
second skin can’t conceal them.
The tribe lives in tall mud huts structured to last 
through flooding season, with paths of rocks that 
can be used as stepping stones when the waters rise. 
Though they take precautions to keep themselves 
out of dangerously high waters, Mudrub goblins are 
expert swimmers. They’re often compared to frogs as 
they sweep through brush and muck, darting around 
their swampy environment with ease. This comparison 
has led to them calling their children tadpoles, with 
coming of age jokingly described as “becoming a 
frog.” They use bird calls to communicate from afar 
and stay hidden, content to observe rather than 
interact with strangers.
Living in the flooded eastern Chitterwood, the 
Mudrub goblin diet relies on frogs. They camouflage 
in the mud and detritus to sneak up on and then 
snatch their unsuspecting prey with their bare hands. 
They enjoy their meals both raw and cooked, and 
they also catch snakes and birds as part of their diet. 
Pickled frog legs are a popular snack as are fried 
snake heads.
PEOPLE OF THE SWARM
Goblins sneak and goblins spring
Goblins swarm and goblins sting
Trap the hob and slice their gut
Goblins here to blow them up!
Break the chains and beat the drum
Burn their bread and steal the rum,
All the blood we goblins shed
Now goblins rise and they be dead!
—People of the Swarm anti-hobgoblin song of resistance
One of the largest and most prominent of Isger’s 
goblin tribes, the People of the Swarm have long 
been famous—or infamous, depending on one’s 
perspective—for the tactics they employ when on the 
offensive. Though goblins aren’t generally known for 
their ability or willingness to effectively organize, it’s 
a hallmark of the People of the Swarm tribe. Early 
on in their history, they realized that working as a 
group meant that more of them were likely to survive 
a fight and come away with whatever treasures they 
were seeking. Where a single goblin might be unable 
to take down a target, a group of goblins can. Swarm 
goblins work together in battle to distract and 
overwhelm their target as they “sting” with arrows, 
daggers, and dogslicers. Members of this tribe tend to 
make successful rogues, even if subtlety is sometimes 
a challenge.
Still, there are limits to the tribe’s favored 
approach—a fact they learned the hard way when 
some particularly hungry Swarm goblins tried to 
turn a grizzly bear into a meal for the tribe. Lest this 
lesson be forgotten, the People of the Swarm have 
nearly 200 songs describing in gory detail the horror 
of bear attacks. Their repertoire of bear songs grew 
when they fled to the Caverns of Chitterwood and 
discovered the cave bears living there.
If there’s one thing that goblins are known for 
(other than how much they love fire), it’s their ability 
to adapt. The first Swarm goblins to take refuge in 
the caverns had little interest in fighting; they were 
scared and traumatized, and most, if not all, of their 
warriors were dead. They wandered the caves, 
Mudrub Hut

===== Page 186 =====
185
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
looking for one they might call home, and eventually 
stumbled across a massive colony of bats. Disturbing 
thousands of bats results in more noise and chaos 
than most folks can handle, but to the People of the 
Swarm, it was a sign they’d found their spot. In this 
safe place, the tribe began to heal and regrow their 
numbers. The elders sang about the wars, their old 
lives, and the mighty heroes lost, and as the tribe 
sang, they strengthened. Now they sing songs not 
only about bear attacks and legendary deeds, but also 
resilience. One day, goblins will be many again, and 
hobgoblins few. There’s power in the swarm.
To this tribe, bats are kindred spirits; they only 
sleep where it’s safe to do so, they forage at night, 
and they almost always leave their caves as a group. 
While goblins can’t hang upside down from the cave 
ceiling, the Swarm did learn the importance of not 
sleeping on the ground—better, instead, to be as high 
as possible, away from floodwaters and out of the 
easy reach of cave bears. Adult members of the tribe 
seek out goblin-sized nooks and crannies to sleep 
in, atop simple bedding made from animal hides or 
plants gathered during nighttime excursions above. 
Children are kept in enclosures nestled into nooks of 
their own near the adults.
Swarm goblins are also expert rock climbers, 
learning to climb as soon as they can walk. They’ve 
adapted the traditional swarming techniques to 
make greater use of height and even sound. Taking 
inspiration from bats, the tribe learned how to 
navigate the caves by paying attention to what 
they heard. Darkvision only works so far, after all, 
and fire doesn’t always stay lit in the dampness of 
the caves. Swarm goblins have developed a way to 
communicate with each other in a series of clicks, 
chirps, and other sounds that make up a language 
only they understand.
SPINE THRESHERS
Of all the goblin tribes in the Chitterwood, the Spine 
Threshers might be the one best known for skill in 
combat. Whereas the People of the Swarm prefer 
to attack on foot, the Spine Threshers rely heavily 
on mounted combat, excelling in the art as an act 
of devotion to their favored creator god, Zarongel. 
During the Goblinblood Wars, hobgoblin commanders 
used members of this tribe to carry out particularly 
vicious attacks, caring little about whether they or 
their mounts—typically goblin dogs or wolves—
survived for long. By the end of the wars, there were 
precious few Spine Thresher warriors alive. Those who 
made it to safety were determined that their knowledge 
wouldn’t be lost.
When they first arrived in the caverns, the Spine 
Thresher tribe had little apart from some of their 
mounts, which were simply too important to 
leave behind; the tribe’s physical survival, and 
the survival of their culture, depended upon these 
creatures. The Spine Threshers trace their founding 
to a warrior whose mount was a gift from Zarongel 
himself, a reward for her great skill and devotion. 
Regrowing the tribe meant increasing not only the 
goblin population, but that of their animals as well. 
Today, the Spine Threshers claim one of the larger 
territories in the caverns. A sizable portion of their 
area is dedicated to the care and training of their 
mounts and the warriors who ride them. A favorite 
pastime involves mounted Spine Threshers racing 
through an extensive, often cramped, network of 
naturally formed tunnels. It’s an exhilarating and 
dangerous game that serves as an important proving 
ground for young warriors.
The Spine Threshers are also particularly fond 
of dares. If there’s a goblin sneaking topside to 
do something foolhardy (or brave, as they see it), 
it’s frequently someone from this tribe. Hunting 
is fun, but it isn’t enough; young warriors who 
grew up hearing songs about the before times are 
eager to have a chance to fight and make names 
for themselves like the heroes of past generations 
did. Games and dares help channel some of their 
growing restlessness and keep their skills honed.
Unsurprisingly, members of this tribe make 
effective fighters and rangers, but some serve 
their people in other ways. Those who feel an 
especially strong connection to fire might become 
a pyrokineticist; despite goblins’ usual misgivings 
about magic, those who command fire are thought 
to be favored by Zarongel. Given the tribe’s deep 
understanding of animals and their zeal for hunting, 
some members of the tribe become effective rangers. 
In stark contrast to the People of the Swarm, the 
Spine Threshers regard cave bears with awe, 
considering them role models in combat, but wisely 
never attempt to train them as either companions 
or mounts. Whatever role they occupy in the tribe, 
Spine Threshers goblins, like cave bears, tend to be 
aggressively territorial and rarely end a fight until 
they know their foe is dead.
TRUE HOARD
Those encountering the True Hoard goblin tribe for 
the first time typically underestimate these goblins’ 
talents and capabilities. Unlike the Spine Threshers, 
True Hoard goblins don’t make fighting their priority, 
preferring to scavenge, steal, or create. They’re

===== Page 187 =====
186
gatherers more than hunters, though they can and do 
hunt quite well when the need arises; when it comes 
to fashioning snares, nets, or clever traps, few are as 
talented as the goblins of the True Hoard. During 
the Goblinblood Wars, the tribe very nearly lost 
their knowledge of such things since most of their 
skilled trap makers and hunters were conscripted 
by hobgoblins and subsequently perished in battle. 
What the survivors did know, they passed on to their 
children, and everything else the tribe rediscovered 
along the way through trial and error.
Endlessly curious and innovative, True Hoard 
goblins make the most of everything they have. It’s a 
trait that’s served them well in the caverns; knowing 
how to make something out of junk and something 
tasty (or at least edible) out of scraps and detritus 
means the difference between life and death. True 
Hoard goblins rarely throw anything away, even 
items that seem totally useless to everyone else. 
Maybe not today, and maybe not tomorrow, but 
someday—they’re sure of it!—whatever it is will be 
just the thing they need. And of course, if it’s shiny or 
pretty, it doesn’t need a purpose. It’s a treasure! 
This belief actually puts them in an odd relationship 
with a particular species of rat living in the caverns: 
the bushy-tailed woodrat. Most folks in Isger who 
have encountered woodrats call them pack rats; the 
True Hoard calls them gully-rakers. Like the True 
Hoard tribe, woodrats love shiny things and spend a 
great deal of their time and energy collecting treasures 
and stashing them in their nests. Some treasures 
are edible, but most aren’t—they’re just pretty or 
interesting in some way. Woodrats will even drop 
what they’re carrying if they come across something 
they find more interesting. 
When it rains in the Chitterwood, floodwaters rush 
into the caverns, bringing all manner of debris, muck, 
and sometimes delightful surprises; True Hoard 
goblins and woodrats frequently clash over who 
gets to claim which items. Despite their irritation, 
the True Hoard has a degree of respect for woodrats 
and even finds them useful (and occasionally 
tasty). Finding a woodrat’s nest sometimes yields 
amazing finds, provided the items haven’t been 
“claimed” yet; woodrats urinate on their stash, and 
eventually everything gets stuck in place so firmly 
that nothing can be removed. Figuring out what 
to do with woodrat urine–soaked items actually 
led some members to make fascinating discoveries. 
As they eventually realized, there are lots of useful 
components in woodrat waste!
After six generations of exploration, discovery, and 
experimentation, the tribe is better equipped than 
ever for a fight should one come their way. Today, 
if you meet a goblin alchemist or inventor in Isger, 
there’s a good chance they’re from the True Hoard 
tribe. Their formulas aren’t recorded in words, so 
anyone attempting to understand a goblin alchemist’s 
notes will have a hard time of it, and the True Hoard 
prefers it that way.
HOBGOBLINS
With the establishment of Oprak in 4717 ar, 
hobgoblins now have a nation to call home. Though 
seemingly small in size, Oprak is rich in resources both 
natural and wondrous and is thriving under General 
Azaersi’s leadership. The few hobgoblins who continue 
to live in Isger do so in the caverns of the Chitterwood, 
patiently biding their time until circumstances are right 
for them to make their presence known. Local goblin 
tribes rarely cooperate willingly with hobgoblins 
anymore; some, however, remain in thrall to these 
powerful hobgoblins.
NON-GOBLINOIDS
Most humans and others who aren’t of goblinoid 
ancestry choose not to live in the Chitterwood—
which is precisely why some do decide to reside 
here. Whether they make their living by preying 
upon caravans along the Chitterwood’s trade route 
or simply need a place to lie low for a while, non-
goblinoid residents appreciate the seclusion offered 
by these woods.
The town of Stumpfield is the most well-known 
of any humanoid settlements near the woods, along 
with its neighbor Fernsby. Stumpfield is unique for 
its large mix of both goblinoid and non-goblinoid 
residents. More information on Stumpfield is on 
pages 30 and 39.
MONSTERS
While goblinoids are the most well-known of the 
Chitterwood’s residents, other creatures also lurk 
in the decrepit woods. Ghosts and haunts are quite 
common, for much blood was shed during the war, 
as are polluted fey spirits twisted by the burning of 
the woods and the blood soaked into the ground. 
The most infamous of these haunts is the rumored 
goblinblood beast, a creature said to be made up 
purely of the blood shed during the war, that longs 
for violence and battle. It’s said to cause visions of 
war and fire in its victims, who believe they’re burning 
in the razing of the Chitterwood.
Dragons are also said to reside in the woods, 
though few have been seen since the Goblinblood 
Wars. Rumor has it a forest dragon is attempting

===== Page 188 =====
187
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
to lay claim to a large section of the Chitterwood 
and battling goblins to do so. There’s also said to 
be an ancient beast of living shadow haunting the 
Chitterwood, though no one living has been able to 
confirm its existence.
Locations
The Chitterwood houses several unique environments. 
Though much was destroyed, some survived the fires 
of the Goblinblood Wars, while others came to be 
afterward.
BARKING CAVERNS
The Spine Threshers live in the Barking Caverns, 
named for the barks of their mounts. This cave system 
is one of the most expansive in the Chitterwood, with 
wide caves that create plenty of room to run and 
train their mounts. The smaller tunnels are used for 
racing and practice, for squeezing through narrow 
passageways can prove one’s worth as a rider.
THE BIG FIRE
This large bonfire deep in the woods is said to burn 
eternally, fed and cared for by the Cinder Seekers. 
The Cinder Seekers view the Big Fire as near-sacred, 
lighting their torches from it in hopes of an extra 
powerful flame. Yet in truth, it’s an ordinary fire that 
simply hasn’t gone out thanks to the diligence of its 
keepers, who insist it’s special in every way and feed 
it only the best of kindling (including, occasionally, an 
unfortunate Isgeri Slayer). The Big Fire is protected 
from rain by a canvas tied to the tree branches 
above it, which makes its smoke billow out low to 
the ground, causing coughing fits whenever anyone 
approaches.
BURNT ENDS
The Burnt Ends is what the goblins call the edges 
of the Chitterwood where the Bulbhead goblins 
make their homes. The trees are much younger here, 
renewing after the effects of the war, and there’s less 
cover than most goblins would like. Nevertheless, the 
Bulbhead goblins call it home and have made a good 
living farming in the once-charred soil, planting their 
iconic gourds and various vegetables to trade.
FROG BOG
Frog Bog is the colloquial name for the swampy 
eastern Chitterwood, where the Mudrub goblins make 
their home. It’s a consistently soggy environment in 
the warm months, drying out in the winter. Frog Bog 
is most known for its large population of frogs as well 
as housing the frog-like Mudrub goblins.
Each year, the frogs get larger and larger, a sign that 
the Chitterwood is healing. Rumors have it that an 
enormous frog the size of a cart lives deep within the 
dirt, and many a Mudrub goblin has attempted to find 
it to lay claim to a most glorious and filling meal.
GOLDENMOUTH
Goldenmouth is the rumored hoard of the dragon 
Jurinex, said to be lost deep in the Chitterwood when 
humans burned down the landmarks that marked its 
location. Many still delve into the Chitterwood in 
attempts to find this lost treasure, braving the dangers 
of the woods in hopes of securing a valuable prize. The 
hoard is said to be a century’s worth of accumulated 
gold and treasures, along with powerful artifacts that 
can grant wishes and immortality.
SHRIEKING CAVERNS
The People of the Swarm reside in the Shrieking 
Caverns, named for the cry of the thousands of bats 
swarming in the caves. These caves are filled with 
threats like cave bears but also nourishment, such as 
fish and lichen, thanks to an underground river.
High ceilings and low pits establish a dangerous 
environment in the caverns, yet it’s also filled with 
nooks and crannies that make for the perfect resting 
spots for goblins. The humidity in the caverns makes 
lighting fires difficult at times, so goblins sometimes 
rely on glowing worms and fungi for a source of light.
STAGFALL CAVES
This set of caves has existed since ancient days, serving 
as a home and shelter to many creatures. Deep within 
the caverns is a nexus of primal power, which has 
lain dormant for centuries until the events of this 
campaign. More about the Stagfall Caves can be found 
on page 57.
SUNLESS TUNNELS
The Sunless Tunnels are where the Hookback goblins 
live in the southern Chitterwood, deep below the 
surface. These caves are uniquely rife with ores the 
goblins use to create their iconic piercings, smelting 
them with specialized techniques. Despite their limited 
use of fire, the Hookback goblins have mastered its 
use, and their tunnels are filled with valuable chunks 
of metal that would make Elidir’s wealthiest nobles 
swoon.
Something else lives deep in the tunnels, where no 
Hookback goblin dares tread. It’s unknown what 
beast breathes so heavily in the dark, but all Hookback 
goblins know not to brave the specific tunnels it can 
be heard in.

===== Page 189 =====
188

===== Page 190 =====
189
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
While much of Isger suffers the deprivations of war and 
four millennia’s worth of neglect from disinterested 
rulers, Elidir has few such worries. The country’s 
capital is the pumping heart at the center of the trade 
industry that is the nation’s lifeblood. Located on the 
Conerica River, the vibrant city bustles with the traffic 
of merchants coming and going between Cheliax and 
Druma, Molthune, and Andoran. They, and the guards 
and craftspeople who facilitate their industry, pour 
gold and resources into the city almost as quickly as 
Isger’s troubles can drain them again.
Despite the riches that pass through Elidir, life 
isn’t easy. Thousands of years of subservience to its 
patron states and the stripping of most of the country’s 
resources have left deep mental scars on the population. 
Such strains were exacerbated by the Goblinblood 
Wars, which devastated the countryside. Though the 
city itself saw little fighting, it has only barely recovered 
from the lost generation who marched off to battle 
and never returned, not to mention the need to care 
for thousands of orphans, refugees, and traumatized 
returning soldiers.
Such tensions play out in the behaviors of the 
city’s elite class of nobles and merchants, who take 
advantage of their position and exert what power they 
have in extravagant displays of wealth. Beneath them, 
many residents still labor in a poverty barely above the 
subsistence struggles of those in the hinterlands. Eking 
out a day-to-day existence, they struggle to rebuild 
the generational wealth lost in the Goblinblood 
Wars. Now, with the conflict of Cheliax and Andoran 
erupting in Breachill, the elites of Elidir fear that the 
unblemished capital might finally be touched by the 
nation’s troubles.
ELIDIR	
SETTLEMENT 8
CITY
Center of trade, capital of Isger
Government appointed steward
Population 11,900 (90% human, 5% halfling, 3% goblin, 
2% other)
Languages Common
Religions Abadar, Asmodeus (official state religion), diabolism
Threats political unrest, trade blocks, undead
Class Conflict The elite of Elidir often look down on others, 
a result of their own lack of agency under Cheliax and 
their disdain for the orphans, refugees, and war veterans 
who flooded the city after the Goblinblood Wars. Due 
to their self-interest, anyone attempting to Request help 
from them suffers a –2 circumstance penalty.
Trade Center An unbelievable array of goods makes its way 
through Elidir via the Conerica Straits. Common items up 
to level 8 are available in the city. Uncommon items up 
to level 6 are frequently available, as is the occasional 
rare item.
Vassal State Isger has long been exploited by Cheliax, 
which claims first choice on its resources, and its grip 
is tightest on the capital, resulting in higher prices. 
Increase the cost of common items by 10% and the cost 
of uncommon items by 25%.
Adasely Tisandera (opportunistic female human merchant 
3) caravanserai operator with dreams of monopolizing 
the market
Dwingini Berylbelt (nonchalant female dwarf cleric of 
Abadar 8) archbanker and high priest of Abadar
Hedvend VI (sniveling male human aristocrat 9) steward of 
Isger, under Cheliax’s sufferance
The Queen of Conerica (avaricious female halfling bandit 6) 
mysterious river pirate leader
Sevizoy (determined male dromaar human former 
assassin 8) leader of reformed temple of Nocticula, 
neophyte cleric
History
Long before Elidir became a city under Taldan rule, 
it was a gathering place of native Isgeri tribes thanks 
to its advantageous position on the Conerica River. 
In the first millennium ar, local tribes began building 
permanent structures in the area, roundhouses used 
during the seasonal gathering of tribes to trade and 
share news.
The natural advantages the site offered were 
immediately apparent to the leaders of Taldor’s 
Seventh Army of Exploration, which made the location 
its headquarters during its campaign of pacification. 
Following the tribes’ defeat, the army’s commander 
General Xerlidia Elidos turned the sprawling camp 
into a permanent settlement, naming it after herself. It 
grew steadily for the next 2,000 years into a booming 
metropolis of 20,000 souls, becoming a center of trade 
that welcomed riches and new settlers to the town in 
equal measure.
Elidir

===== Page 191 =====
190
But the Even-Tongued Conquest proved devastating 
for the city, which became a center of the struggle 
for Isger until Cheliax firmly wrested control of the 
province from Taldor. The resources that would’ve 
let the city rebuild instead immediately 
began flowing to Isger’s new patron.
With no homes to return to, many 
of the survivors of the climactic Battle 
of Elidir departed—leaving for the 
outskirts of Isger or, if they had the 
means, to Cheliax, Taldor, and any other 
country that would take them in. With 
peace restored, Elidir was reestablished 
as a trade center but, lacking the 
resources it had in its first millennia, never 
reached its former glory again.
The country’s most recent conflict, the 
Goblinblood Wars, had little impact on the city 
itself since the elites ignored the plight 
of the countryside to protect themselves. 
The Isgeri Army was devastated by 
loss, leading Hedvend VI to order the 
remaining soldiers to protect the capital over the 
countryside. The aftereffects of this callousness have 
made a mark, as the nation is inundated with those 
who suffered because of the elites’ selfishness, and they 
resentfully remember the leaders who failed them.
Geography
The Conerica River, which first brought the Isgeri 
tribes and then Taldan settlers to Elidir, has fueled the 
city’s growth and determined its direction. Growing 
first on one bank, Elidir quickly spread to both sides 
of the Conerica, doubling the space available for ships 
to dock. In the millennia since, the city has largely 
extended up and down the length of the waterway 
instead of outward in a constant effort to increase the 
room for trade.
Because the river became the center of industry, 
Elidir’s elite built their lavish homes on the hills on the 
city’s outskirts, while the working class neighborhoods 
arose between them, insulating the elite from the noise 
and crowds of the docks and sparing them from the 
occasional floods. In a style that continues today, the 
elite’s manors often included their own walls around 
the grounds, initially to protect from bandits before 
the city built its primary wall and later to keep the 
rabble separate (especially in the event of unrest).
Located in the foothills of the Menador Mountains, 
Elidir is occasionally subjected to brutal winter storms 
that sweep off the range and dump a foot of snow 
or more on the city. Because the Conerica itself never 
stops flowing, neither does trade in the city, and such 
storms make it all the more dangerous for the laborers 
who have to deal with the snow and cold. Spring melt 
sometimes floods the Conerica, leaving Elidir a muddy 
mess that only affects the lower class due to location.
Government
Elidir is governed by the steward of 
Isger, who oversees its bureaucracy 
at the sufferance of Cheliax’s Queen 
Abrogail 
Thrune 
II. 
Because 
the 
diabolic empire cares little about what 
happens to the city as long as trade isn’t 
disrupted, the steward has a loose leash 
when it comes to the capital. To ensure 
that affairs of state continue, Hedvend 
VI has largely empowered two main forces 
in his government: the Isgeri Army and the 
Trade Office, both of which operate in close 
collaboration. The former patrols the 
Conerica Straits, keeping it safe from 
bandits and monsters, while the latter 
oversees all trade in the city, including 
managing the docks and warehouses, collecting taxes, 
tariffs, and other fees, and ensuring the labor supply 
is reliable.
Elidir’s most important laws revolve around its 
trade—for example, ships making the journey between 
Druma and Cheliax have priority over local river traffic 
(many of the city’s elite keep a ship ostensibly from 
one of those two nations to let them take advantage 
of the law). Similarly, interfering with the river trade 
brings harsh consequences. Crimes committed within 
100 yards of the river face harsher punishments than 
the same crime committed elsewhere in the city. Both 
boarding a boat without permission or sinking a boat 
are serious crimes, though they might be mitigated very 
slightly if the boat isn’t currently laden with goods.
The legacy of the Goblinblood Wars also remains in 
the city’s War Laws, supposedly temporary measures 
intended to ensure the city’s safety in the face of 
goblin threats. Dogs must be allowed to roam freely 
in the city, in the expectation that they would both 
warn of an attack and scare away goblins. Singing in 
public was also forbidden for fear it could be mistaken 
for goblin song, leading to a growing tradition of 
rebellious poetry and storytelling.
As the war ground on and deprivation deepened 
even in the city, the laws became harsher toward those 
who squandered resources. Wasting food became 
a crime punished by a lash on a first offense, up to 
imprisonment for repeated waste. Butchers were 
required to deliver the intestines of the animals they 
slaughtered to the army to be made into bowstrings.
 Isgeri Army Symbol

===== Page 192 =====
191
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
When starvation became a concern, the law’s 
punishments against interfering with a roaming dog 
were extended and toughened for anyone who killed 
a dog. More cynically, so as to not have to waste time 
enforcing theft laws against starving masses, taking 
fruit or vegetables from someone else’s garden became 
permissible, as long as it wasn’t more than could be 
held in one hand. Enforcement of these ordinances 
today is very situational, applying far more often to 
the city’s poorer residents than to Elidir’s elite.
Residents
Following 
early 
divides 
between 
the 
Taldan 
conquerors and Isgeri tribes, the divisions between 
both cultures slowly melted away, and they become 
one, intermixing freely. Their descendants form the 
majority of the city, and it’s rare that a native Elidiran 
human can (or would even try to) define themselves as 
purely Taldan or Kellid.
Halflings form the next largest population in 
the city, thanks in large part to Isger’s vassalage to 
Cheliax. Those whose families weren’t brought to 
Elidir against their will often saw the city as a place 
where they were more likely to be able to escape 
servitude than in the heart of their diabolic homeland. 
The Emancipation Edict drew yet more halflings to 
the city, where the meager resources were offset 
by the lighter yoke of tyranny than in Cheliax.
More recently, following the founding of 
Oprak and a general cultural trend toward 
better understanding for goblins, strict rules 
forbidding goblinoids from entering Elidir have 
been forgotten. Now, many are seen as sources 
of cheap labor. Still, tensions exist between the 
human survivors of the Goblinblood Wars and 
the new goblin arrivals in the city, who carry little 
memory of their ancestors’ war.
The city’s prominent position on a major trade 
route brings plenty of traffic among other ancestries, 
some of whom choose to make their home in the city. 
While the presence of elves, dwarves, gnomes, aiuvarin, 
and dromaar as well as other ancestries and heritages 
aren’t common in Elidir, they’re certainly not unusual 
enough to draw any comment or double glances.
NOTABLE FIGURES
There are many caravanserai operators on the 
outskirts of Elidir, but few are as ambitious as Adasely 
Tisandera (opportunistic female human merchant 3). 
Having grown up poor in the lower levels of Elidir, 
Adasely longs to take control of all caravanserai 
under her name and dominate the market, flooding 
her hands with gold. She’s been working on setting 
up a caravanserai’s guild and hopes to ally with other 
merchants with similar aspirations, though she makes 
sure that none are as ambitious as herself.
Cygnetus Frawn (flamboyant nonbinary human 
dandy 9) is the foremost trendsetter in Elidir, leading 
society in both fashion and social movements. They are 
a strong supporter of Cheliax and use their seemingly 
flighty parties and fashion choices to subtly maneuver 
others into supporting the patron nation. Calling for 
charity balls, hosting masquerades, and donating to 
the church of Asmodeus all work to serve a greater 
purpose: keeping Isger in check.
Archbanker Dwingini Berylbelt (nonchalant female 
dwarf cleric of Abadar 8) is the high priest of Abadar 
in Elidir, tending to his worshippers among the city. 
She feels that Isger’s sole focus on Elidir stifles the 
spread of the market in the countryside, strangling the 
ability for more wealth and prosperity in the nation. 
She keeps quiet, however, knowing that opening her 
mouth wouldn’t serve her well.
Elidir Local

===== Page 193 =====
192
Hedvend VI (sniveling male human aristocrat 9) 
has served as Isger’s steward for decades, and his sole 
priority is to keep Cheliax content. This approach has 
led to a large wealth disparity between those in the 
capital and those outside of it, as his focus is on the 
trade around the Conerica River at the cost of ignoring 
the issues of the countryside. He’s vastly unpopular 
with the people, with even his fellow elites hoping to 
knock him down a peg and take his place.
Few are even aware of the existence of Urgathoa’s 
followers in Isger, let alone that they’re led by the 
cheerful chef Luminia Bell (zealous female human 
cleric 6). Luminia uses her day job as a fine dining 
chef to gain access to the rarest of delicacies and the 
wealthiest of patrons, bringing goods back to indulge 
in with fellow worshippers of the Pallid Princess in 
lavish feasts and debauchery. She’s very popular with 
the elites for her elaborate meals and unique food 
decorations, utilizing unusual ingredients to create the 
most indulgent meals possible in the name of gluttony.
The current scourge of merchant ships traveling 
down the Conerica River is the Queen of Conerica 
(avaricious female halfling bandit 6), a pirate captain 
who leads raids solely on trade ships. The pirates have 
learned to work extremely efficiently, finishing their 
raids within an hour and absconding with their goods 
before the authorities can catch up. Despite the large 
bounty on her head, the mysterious leader of these 
pirates is yet to be identified or arrested.
A small holy war is being waged in the streets of 
Elidir, and one side is led by Sevizoy (determined 
male dromaar human former assassin 8), the leader of 
the reformed temple of Nocticula. Sevizoy is a cleric 
with little training outside of his immense faith, a 
former assassin who changed his ways and fervently 
believes that everyone should have a chance to do the 
same. However, his opposition in the traditionalist 
worshippers of Nocticula’s demonic incarnation hunt 
down his clergy and followers, forcing him to lead 
the fight against them. Sevizoy proclaims these other 
worshippers of Nocticula heretics yet hopes they’ll 
find redemption as the Redeemer Queen did. 
Culture and Society
Elidiran society is largely shaped by its traumas—
Cheliax’s domination of the country and the 
Goblinblood Wars—and its population’s perseverance 
in the face of such tragedies. On its surface, the culture 
A
X
F
T
U
I
G
A
A
B
O
J
H
C
E
V
K
R
A
S
Y
L
P
W
M
D
N
Q
A
Elidir
O
450
450
FEET
FEET

===== Page 194 =====
193
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
mirrors that of any cosmopolitan Chelaxian city, but 
as a pale reflection—the people pay lip service to 
Asmodeus but don’t truly worship him, and Chelaxian 
holidays such as Signing Day and Even-Tongued Day 
are celebrated perfunctorily by most of the city’s 
population. Beneath that veneer, however, lies a deep 
well of both resilience and resentment.
The little-spoken truth of their subservience 
preys on the minds of Elidir’s elite, eating away at 
their confidence. With little ability to exert any 
real authority over their country, they instead fall 
back on what they can control—their own wealth. 
Many flaunt their status, living in gated manors in 
the city, where they hold grand galas and feast on 
foods imported from far-off countries. Their lavish 
lifestyles often incorporate trends and fashions seen 
in distant Egorian but remain far enough behind the 
times that visiting Chelaxians routinely make sport 
of their provincial counterparts. Such mockery only 
prods Elidir’s elites on to greater excess.
That hedonistic behavior further emphasizes the 
chasm between the city’s haves and have-nots, who 
refuse to let the deprivation they face define them. 
Many celebrate even the smallest efforts at kindness 
and helping others, pointing to their support of both 
the city’s orphans and haunted veterans after the wars 
as shining examples of Elidiran culture. Knowing 
that they might not have the ability to offer more 
to those who are struggling, Elidirans emphasize the 
importance of trying to help. In quiet voices, little 
acts of charity and kindness are known as “yanking 
the devil’s tail” to indicate the conditions imposed by 
Cheliax can’t break the Isgeri spirit.
Elidiran dress and architecture showcase the city’s 
endurance, emphasizing beauty even without the 
natural resources other capitals enjoy. Outside of the 
wealthy elite, most residents wear clothing made from 
wool, linen, or other common materials but use bright 
colors and delicate embroidery to add beauty. Glass 
beads, often sewn into shirts and dresses or worn as 
jewelry, take the place of jewels. Residents similarly 
find ways to beautify their homes without expensive 
touches, using pierced balusters, colorful glass bead 
hangings, and brightly painted frieze boards to create 
a welcoming touch.
Most Elidirans are too occupied with daily life—
whether that’s getting through the day among the 
poorest residents, or sybaritic pleasures among the 
upper classes—to devote much attention to matters of 
faith. Asmodeus, as the state religion, has the largest 
presence in the city, followed by Abadar.
There’s also a small contingent of Nocticula 
worshippers, though they’ve been split with her 
ascension to a deity, for some refuse to accept her 
as the Redeemer Queen and hunt down those who 
do. This conflict is kept to the shadows, neither side 
wanting to draw attention from the authorities.
In addition, unnoticed by the vast majority of the 
population, Urgathoa’s faith quietly lurks. Though 
the presence of Asmodeus’ church keeps them in the 
shadows, the Pallid Princess’s agents encourage the 
cultural malaise among the city’s most powerful that 
leads them into excess and, ultimately, her claws. 
They similarly seek to tempt the city’s poorer masses, 
whispering that they always deserve more, deserve 
better, in hopes that will lead them to Urgathoa. 
Their subtle machinations have led to promotions 
elsewhere for ambitious clerics of other faiths, 
ensuring the city is largely served by those who are 
less capable or interested and thus more likely to fail 
in facing Urgathoa’s growing undead army outside 
the city walls.
Relations and Conflicts
The army’s focus on protecting the Conerica Straits 
means Elidir is largely insulated from external threats. 
While bandits and undead occasionally prey on those 
traveling to or from the city, such attacks usually take 
place well out of sight of the city walls and beyond the 
reach of its armed patrols. The city’s greatest conflicts 
come from within: discontent among rich and poor 
alike, and Chelaxian rule.
The large wealth disparity within the city creates 
strong tensions between the elites and anyone not 
counted among them. To ease the tensions and keep 
the rabble down, charity events to help the less 
fortunate are held quite frequently, though they serve 
more as excuses for the wealthy to socialize than to 
help those in need.
The Battle of Hellknight Hill has aroused great 
debate about Cheliax’s rule of Isger and the rights of 
its citizens. Rebellious youths call for Hedvend to step 
down after the disaster of a foreign diplomat’s death, 
and there are even those among the elites who silently 
agree, though they have ulterior motives for wanting 
Hedvend out of the picture.
Beyond the threat of devils and Urgathoa’s 
followers, 
another 
religious 
battle 
here 
goes 
largely unnoticed by the city’s leaders. Nocticula’s 
followers—though they make up just a tiny fraction 
of the populace—wage a bloody war between those 
who have accepted her new divine role and the 
followers of her long-standing temple here devoted 
to her prior demonic incarnation. Such violence so 
far has largely been contained to Elidir’s dark alleys 
but threatens to spill out into the public.

===== Page 195 =====
194
Places of Interest
As the capital city, Elidir is the location of several 
unique and storied places. Here are some of the most 
important or interesting of those locations.
A. Caravanserai: Caravanserais nestle against the 
city’s walls, offering a place to stay for those willing to 
trade safety for ease. Guards and adventurers come to 
seek employment or companions for journeys through 
more dangerous parts of Avistan, while thieves and 
opportunists look for easy prey.
B. Chelaxian Quarter: This walled neighborhood, 
known to locals as the Devils’ Court, surrounds the 
official Thrune embassy and the wealthy homes of 
expatriates and other Chelaxians who find themselves 
in Elidir. The houses here are the most luxurious in 
all the city, and the occupants are known for their 
lifestyles of excess. Dottari and devils ensure the 
residents’ safety, brutally enforcing the law against any 
trespassers and lawbreakers.
C. Coffer Hall: The primary temple of Abadar is a 
surprisingly low-key structure considering the amount 
of wealth that flows through Elidir. That’s by design, 
as Urgathoa’s agents have long worked to ensure the 
Master of the First Vault’s most capable clerics find 
opportunities in other parts of the Inner Sea, leaving 
only those who lack grand ambition or imagination to 
cater to the city’s faithful.
D. Conerica Landing: The collection of wooden 
docks and warehouses that facilitate the city’s prime 
industry—trade—are collectively known as Conerica 
Landing. They run up and down both banks of the 
river and are some of the most heavily guarded areas 
of the city.
E. Druma Road Gate: The main overland highway 
from Druma enters Elidir at the Druma Road Gate, 
which is always crowded with caravans and others 
seeking to enter or exit. Waits to enter can reach up 
to a day here (though a little gold helps speed up the 
process) with anyone who leaves their place in line 
having to reenter at the end of the queue.
F. Elidir Academy for Proper Goblins: After the 
children raised in this former orphanage grew up and 
moved out, Ottschan Rasefel (severe nonbinary human 
caretaker 2) set their sights on a new project: educating 
goblins. Their short temper and harsh methods quickly 
drive away most young goblins who end up here, but 
the school continues to garner popular support from 
the city’s elite.
G. Grand Cheliax Gate: Two carved wooden 
statues of nessari devils tower over the wall on either 
side of this western entrance to the city, which locals 
know as the Devilsgate. Though it’s nearly as busy 
as the Druma Road Gate, it’s known for the guards’ 
efficient manner, which keeps a steady flow of traffic 
moving.
H. Gyve: The city’s prison holds debtors, political 
prisoners, and true criminals in horrid conditions. 
Subterranean torture chambers routinely extract 
confessions from the innocent and guilty alike.
I. Hedvend Park: This park is named after one of 
the earlier stewards of Isger, a stark reminder of the 
nepotism that runs rampant in Chelaxian circles. 
Hedvend VI has tried to make this park a luxurious 
experience, pouring funds to build a towering 
fountain with a likeness of Abrogail Thrune II on 
it,and importing a number of exotic birds and fish to 
decorate the landscape with.
J. The Iron Strop: This home for wounded veterans 
was run by Gorumite clerics who sought to restore 
their patients to full health—and the ability to battle 
again. Following Gorum’s death, the remaining 
caretakers and patients have become jaded nihilists, 
picking fights with anyone who passes by.
K. Home to Kazhlik: This popular, smoke-filled 
tavern has passed from one dwarven owner to another 
ever since it was founded more than 2,000 years ago. 
Though the origin of its name was forgotten until a 
recent discovery by the Pathfinder Society, it is known 
for its home-cooked meals with Five Kings Mountains 
delicacies and is a favorite of dwarves (and many 
others) who make their way through the city.
L. Isgeri Circle: Most residents give a wide berth 
to this 2,500-year-old circle of standing stones 
surrounding a badly worn altar to Urgathoa (in an 
ancient Kellid incarnation as a harvest goddess) in 
Xerlidia Park. Originally put up to help appease the 
early Isgeri, attempts to remove the circle over the 
millennia have all failed, and superstition says anyone 
who tries will grow ill and die.
M. Isger’s Fist: The Isgeri military operates out of 
this fortress complex, so-called because it wields the 
sword that is the army. Surrounding the central castle 
that hosts the command operations are barracks, 
stables, and other key elements of the country’s armed 
forces.
N. Kingsthrone Cathedral: Built with taxpayers’ 
money at the direct command of the Thrunes, this 
grand cathedral is the center of Asmodeus’ faith in 
Elidir. Its five ruby-studded towers rise high into the 
skyline, ensuring they can be seen from anywhere 
in the city. Traffic is constant at the cathedral, with 
merchants and dottari milling about outside of 
the grand doors and congregants attending strictly 
scheduled times of worship. The cathedral is the most 
popular place of worship not out of piety but fear, as 
no one wants to be seen as disloyal to Cheliax.

===== Page 196 =====
195
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
O. Moil: The former slave market attached to the 
Gyve was shut down following the Emancipation 
Edict, only to reopen a short time later as a labor 
camp. Those who can’t pay their debts or who commit 
other minor crimes work here in difficult conditions, 
creating munitions for use by the army or goods sold 
to benefit their creditors.
P. Myrogy’s Menagerie: This showcase of exotic 
animals and bizarre creatures was once a star 
attraction of the city but has fallen into disrepair. 
While ordinary citizens still enjoy the occasional tour, 
the wealthy elites have grown bored of the mainstay 
animals and demand variety if the menagerie wants 
their patronage. Bulric Soddentough (frazzled male 
human zookeeper 3) has turned to paying adventurers 
to bring him new creatures, no matter how dangerous. 
He hopes to keep the menagerie fresh and interesting 
to attract the high-end clientele.
Q. New Dream Designs: This tattoo shop is the secret 
meeting place of Nocticula’s remaining followers who 
survived the violent schism among the city’s faithful 
after the goddess turned her back on her demonic past. 
Sevizoy, who leads the shrine’s small congregation, 
is developing magical tattoos to sell so he can hire 
mercenaries to help in a bloody struggle against his 
former companions.
R. Night Market: This street market spills out of the 
Druma Road Gate, offering produce, goods, and crafts 
by day or night to city residents and passing caravans. 
After the sun sets, the merchandise inevitably includes 
items lifted by workers and thieves from cargo on 
its way through the city that were never intended to 
remain in Elidir.
S. Rampways: The network of roads that runs 
around Elidir allows traders to bypass the city and the 
army to easily navigate the Conerica Straits. Because 
the Rampways are more difficult to protect than the 
river itself, the bulk of bandit activity in the region 
occurs on them, with raiders striking and quickly 
retreating back into the hills.
T. Spellbinder’s Stage: This small theater has 
become celebrated by the city’s elite for its minimalist 
performances, often little more than spoken pieces 
or stage readings. Completely oblivious to the truth 
that the theater lacks the resources to put on grander 
shows, its patrons praise it as avant-garde—a uniquely 
Isgeri take on drama. The theater’s owner, Theletch 
(subversive male kayal playwright 4), has taken to 
presenting ever more searing shows, convinced that 
his audience will continue to overlook what’s right 
in their face. It’s rumored that the theater plans to 
perform the infamous play Abrogail I when the 
timing is right.
U. The Succubus’s Sash: Ignoring the fact that 
succubi aren’t devils, this high-end boutique specializes 
in devil-themed fashion and the “latest” (really 
months behind) Egorian fashion trends. Owner Felice 
Gregoria (savvy genderfluid halfling tailor 6) isn’t 
actually a Chelaxian loyalist but knows catering to 
those who are will bring the most gold to their hands. 
The boutique also provides special enchantments for 
their most expensive items, such as illusory scents or 
glimmering images of dancing nobles. Those who pay 
extra can gain access to the store’s rarest merchandise, 
magically battle-ready clothing designed for both 
aesthetic and practicality.
V. Sweet Embrace: This unassuming wooden tower 
for years held a low-end brothel and, secretly, the 
city’s temple of Nocticula, home to an assassin’s guild 
operating in her name. Following the former demon 
lord’s ascension as the Redeemer Queen, Mistress 
Erity (charming female human assassin 9) won control 
of Sweet Embrace and continues both of its trades 
while battling to eliminate the remnant of the cult 
that accepted Nocticula’s changes. She and her fellow 
assassins have found a new divine patron to answer 
their prayers, but it isn’t clear if even they know who 
grants them power.
W. Trade House: The city’s tax and customs 
office, which oversees Conerica Landing, the city’s 
caravanserai, and all other trade matters, fills a 
sprawling labyrinth of buildings near the docks. 
Its wide purview leaves it rife with opportunities 
for corruption, which generally gets ignored until it 
becomes too egregious. Even so, punishment is often 
light, leading to a certain fearlessness among those 
who fill their coffers with the city’s gold.
X. White Stag Inn: This large, bustling inn a short 
walk away from the docks serves all those who make 
their living from the river, from the richest merchants 
to the meanest stevedore. It’s a common place to find 
work or workers, depending on which side of the 
divide a person falls on.
Y. Xerlidia Park: Named for Elidir’s founder, this 
park has survived through the centuries thanks to an 
ironclad pact she made with the early Isgeri tribes. 
It’s tended by a handful of animists who channel the 
spirits of the ancient Kellid Speakers of the Pale faith; 
these animists also welcome visitors to walk its paths, 
interact with nature, and commune with the dead at 
the city’s Memorial to Lost Soldiers, a gleaming steel 
sculpture made from broken swords and armor. This 
site is one of the few spiritual places in Isger that 
remains untouched by Cheliax, and many flock to it 
not out of faith but out of hope, seeing something that 
isn’t tainted by Hell’s fiendish presence.

===== Page 197 =====
196

===== Page 198 =====
197
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Urgathoa was a mortal woman who so loved indulging 
in the pleasures of the body and mind that she tore 
herself from the Boneyard and ascended to godhood. 
As the goddess of disease, gluttony, and undeath, 
Urgathoa invites her followers to endlessly feast on all 
the sensations and experiences Golarion has to offer 
with little regard to morality or mortality. Hedonists, 
gluttons, necromancers, and undead all follow in 
her bloody footsteps, chasing after a life where their 
desires never go unfulfilled.
Prominent Figures
Urgathoa’s most influential worshippers are revered 
by some, reviled by many, and feared by all. Driven 
by hunger and delighting in the freedom of undeath, 
they’re handful of the most gruesome, grotesque, 
and glorious paragons who faithfully serve the Pallid 
Princess.
BARASTHANGAS
Barasthangas (studious female fleshwarp mage 11) 
was obsessed with the machinations of destruction 
and anti-life, and so she traveled to the Void and was 
transformed from an elven mage into an undead one. 
Her powers are now entwined with the Void, and her 
flesh is stretched so tautly that bones and tissue are 
visible through her translucent skin. Now back in the 
Universe, Barasthangas experiments with the creation 
of new forms of undead infused with entropic energy, 
viewing Urgathoa as both patron and co-parent to her 
profane children. She regularly fuels her magic with 
the life force of foes, allowing her to stupefy them and 
turn them into new test subjects.
FJARN
Fjarn (veteran male ghoul commander 12) has a 
hulking form, corpse-gray skin, and an unnerving 
rictus smile that strike fear in the hearts of anyone 
unlucky enough to cross his path in battle. Once an 
Ulfen Linnorm King who died by suicide after he was 
forced to murder and eat his own honor guard, Fjarn 
rose from the grave with the taste of forbidden flesh 
on his tongue. He now wages endless war against 
Urgathoa’s enemies, devouring the corpses of his 
fallen foes to grow his power. Paladins and warriors 
devoted to other gods whisper about the horrifying 
sight of a once regal figure stooping low to gnaw on 
carrion like a common beast.
MOTHER’S MAW
As the divine representative of Urgathoa, Mother’s 
Maw (enigmatic agender herald 15) soars through the 
air on leathery bat wings to enact its goddess’s will. 
Surrounded by swarms of buzzing flies and adoring 
undead thralls, the giant winged skull ferries allies into 
battle, creates new undead, and shoves enemies into 
its endless gullet. It does everything and anything that 
the goddess commands, no matter how destructive 
or bizarre the task is. When it isn’t busy fulfilling 
Urgathoa’s wishes, Mother’s Maw searches for 
novel sensual experiences and partakes in passionate 
conversation about food, wine, perfume, and the other 
pleasures of life.
MANY-LIMBS KIMMATO
Formerly a physician devoted to Sarenrae, Kimmato 
(sorrowful nonbinary halfling herexen 5) had their 
faith shattered when their spouse died in childbirth. 
Desperate to be united with their spouse, Kimmato 
spat in the face of everything they once believed and 
grafted the still-warm remains of their loved one onto 
their own body with gruesome surgical precision. This 
act of blasphemous defiance delighted Urgathoa, who 
blessed them with undeath and a new title. Many-
Limbs Kimmato now vengefully carves a bloody path 
through Sarenrae’s temples and worshippers in the 
name of Urgathoa, their profanely amalgamated body 
growing with each new victim, hundreds of arms and 
legs moving in uncanny unison.
Plots of the 
Pallid Princess
CONTENT WARNING
This article explores the many manifestations of 
Urgathoan worship. It includes themes of body 
horror, cannibalism, disordered eating, vomiting, 
alcohol, eugenics, disease, intentional transmission 
of disease, medical negligence, death in childbirth, 
mass murder, suicide, human experimentation, 
desecration of the dead, undead, and involuntary 
reanimation.

===== Page 199 =====
198
URRA LYNEDON
Urgathoa gave Urra Lynedon (experimental female 
vampire count 9) a new purpose in an otherwise boring 
immortal life: cultivating diseases like one would rare, 
exotic flowers. Using the bodies of her devoted mortal 
consorts, Urra nurtures and breeds strains of bacteria, 
fungi, and viruses from all across Golarion. She offers 
the results of her experiments to fellow Urgathoan 
faithful who seek new sensations or the fever-driven 
visions from their goddess.
Practices
Urgathoa demands that her worshippers put personal 
gratification before all else and cast off the constraints 
imposed by morality, society, and the mortal body. 
Many of her followers indulge in extreme hedonism, 
defying taboo to satiate their appetites of the body 
and the mind. Casting away self-restraint, worshippers 
feast upon everything Golarion has to offer, whether 
that’s rare delicacies, poisonous rot, or the flesh and 
lifeblood of sapient creatures. They experiment with 
the sensual limitations of their bodies, mixing pleasure 
and pain as they chase increasingly bizarre and 
grotesque hungers.
Other followers willingly contract and endure 
illnesses. By allowing disease and infection to ravage 
their bodies, Urgathoa’s faithful can prove their 
dedication to a life of limitless indulgence while 
experiencing novel sensations. Urgathoa often gives 
visions and divine insights to her followers during 
the fevered dreams of affliction, and her favored 
messengers exist in a perpetual sickly state. 
Urgathoa’s worshippers view undeath as the 
ultimate transcendence of the mortal body’s limitation. 
Many dream of becoming undead, when they can 
forever fulfill their desires without the pesky limit of 
mortality. The more magically gifted practice the art 
of necromancy, learning how to raise the dead and 
spit in the eye of the natural order to fulfill their own 
ambitions. Those unable to realize their post-death 
fantasies venerate the undead, sometimes to the extent 
of willingly feeding themselves to their more ravenous 
peers if only to experience the rapture of death in 
service to Urgathoa.
The more bloodthirsty of Urgathoa’s followers 
satisfy their cravings for violence by torturing and 
killing in her name. They seek out congregations 
who worship Urgathoa’s enemies and take delight in 
massacring them, savoring the symphony of screams 
and the splatter of warm blood upon skin. The victims 
who were most adamantly against undeath are then 
reanimated and sent after their surviving loved ones in 
a final act of perverse and ironic pleasure.
Cults
Festering in the darkness of Golarion like a hungry rot, 
Urgathoan cults gather in secrecy to worship the Pallid 
Princess. Whether they act in their own self-interest or 
in misguided selflessness, no matter if they follow her 
divine aspect of disease, gluttony, or death, all these 
cults seek to serve Urgathoa’s insatiable will.
THE SAVORING SOCIETY
On the surface, the Savoring Society is an eccentric and 
exclusive club made up of the wealthiest politicians, 
merchants, and nobility of Absalom. However, behind 
gilded doors is a cult that allows the upper class to 
freely indulge in the pleasures that privilege provides. 
For these hedonistic aristocrats, gluttony and luxury 
are their given due, and Urgathoa is their patron who 
ensures the party never stops.
Members boast of tasting every living thing that 
has existed across Golarion while sipping wine aged 
for a thousand years. Opulent gatherings can last 
for weeks, as the cult’s rules proclaim that members 
must not only indulge in material joy but also savor 
it, taking all the time one could ever need and more 
to enjoy such extravagance. The Savoring Society 
lures in new members from the rich and powerful 
elite, plying them with their vices and convincing 
them that Urgathoa is the only goddess they should 
revere—for who else understands that to enjoy the 
benefits of impossible wealth, one must consume the 
poor?
THE ASHEN CHURCH
Cults dedicated to proliferating and venerating the 
undead are plentiful among Urgathoa’s worshippers, 
but none are as successful as the Ashen Church. 
Appearing across Golarion where war, natural 
disaster, or extreme poverty have struck, the Ashen 
Church bears witness to the ways people become 
fearful, cruel, and desperate when faced with their 
own mortality. Members seek to alleviate this cycle of 
suffering by sharing the comfort their goddess offers: 
that one doesn’t have to fear death, as Urgathoa 
ensures that death isn’t the end. Through gentle acts of 
kindness and empathy, they teach people that undeath 
is Urgathoa’s mercy to all mortal kind, a way to save 
them from their mortal dread with the promise that 
immortality awaits all who accept it.
The Ashen Church’s compassion isn’t limited to the 
living. While most people look upon an undead creature 
with revulsion or terror, the Ashen Church sees a being 
that deserves respect and affection. Their very presence 
can quell the aggression of otherwise malevolently 
ravenous undead. It’s through this peaceful conduct

===== Page 200 =====
199
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
that the Ashen Church has so triumphantly opened 
the minds and hearts of Golarion’s people to Urgathoa 
and undeath, allowing her name and mercy to spread 
forever more.
THE SHEPHERDS OF AFFLICTION
The Eye of Dread’s residents have 
experienced firsthand how powerless 
mere mortals are in the face of 
godlike threats. While some people 
cower behind the shields of 
heroes or sequester themselves 
away in ruins, the Shepherds 
of Affliction believe that the 
path to civilization’s survival 
is to nurture the strong and weed 
out the weak. They worship Urgathoa 
as the pinnacle of survival and utilize 
disease as the ultimate test to see who’s worthy to 
inherit the world in her name.
Going from town to town, the Shepherds of 
Affliction infect entire villages with devastating 
illnesses and deprive them of medicine. Those who 
survive are brought into the fold, given plenty of 
food, military training, and necromantic secrets to use 
against anything that threatens them. Those unworthy 
enough to die are reanimated as undead servants, used 
as tools rather than given the dignity of peaceful rest. 
The rare few who are gifted with visions of Urgathoa 
are revered as prophets, granted great privilege though 
forced to stay in a perpetual fever state. Each day, the 
Shepherds of Affliction grow in number and strength, 
marching forward with the unshakable belief that the 
disease-ravaged world they seek to build will be worth 
the sacrifice.
THE ETERNAL EATERS
Some say you are what you eat, and the Eternal Eaters 
take that saying to its most literal extreme. Members 
come from all across the Golden Road, united in 
the belief that everything they consume becomes an 
inextricable part of their soul and will be brought with 
them to their final destination in the afterlife. Food 
is eaten not just to sustain mortal bodies but also to 
fill otherworldly feast tables. Teeth crunch against 
coveted heirlooms and precious gems to fill coffers, 
and throats raggedly swallow down stone and metals 
to build personal palaces. In the most extreme cases, 
members will even consume beloved pets and family 
members to guarantee they’ll be united in eternity. 
Every bite is dedicated to Urgathoa in the hopes that 
she’ll accept their piety and provide them a home 
within her domain.
The Eternal Eaters suffer greatly as their bodies 
struggle to digest this unusual diet. However, they 
accept the pain as a minor price to pay for everlasting 
happiness after death and refuse any medical treatment 
to alleviate their symptoms. After an Eternal Eater 
dies, their last act of devotion is to give their body 
to Urgathoa so that it can continue to serve 
her on the mortal plane while their soul 
moves on to their carefully crafted 
afterlife.
Items
These items are commonly 
used 
by 
worshippers 
of 
Urgathoa.
PALLID CRYSTAL	
ITEM 7
UNCOMMON
DIVINE
INVESTED
Price 360 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
Requirements You’re a follower of Urgathoa.
This finger-shaped crystal on a thin strip of leather bridges 
the worlds of life and undeath, shifting from a pale opaque 
pink when worn by a living creature to a deep translucent 
purple when worn by an undead creature. While wearing 
the necklace, rotten food and drink taste as if they were 
fresh and can be eaten with no ill effects. If you’re healed 
by healing vitality effects, you gain void resistance 5, but 
if you’re healed by void effects, you instead gain vitality 
resistance 5.
PLATTER OF PUTRID DREAMS	
ITEM 4
UNCOMMON
DIVINE
Price 100 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This silver platter and cloche set is intricately carved with 
scenes of overflowing feast tables. When you speak the 
command word, a dish is created for your lips and tongue 
alone. Anyone else who tries to eat the summoned food is 
compelled to immediately vomit it back up, unchewed and 
undigested.
Activate—Savory Feast 
10 
minutes 
(concentrate, 
exploration, manipulate) Frequency once per week; 
Effect Speaking “savor” as you lift the lid creates a dish 
you’ve never tasted before, whether it’s the unique 
delicacy of a far-flung region or the forbidden flesh of 
a sapient creature. If you spend 10 minutes consuming 
the entire meal, you regain 2d6+8 Hit Points and gain 
a +2 status bonus to saving throws against being 
sickened for 24 hours, but if you attempt to ingest 
anything else in that time—including elixirs and 
potions—you must first succeed at a DC 5 flat check or 
the action is wasted.
Platter of Putrid Dreams

===== Page 201 =====
200

===== Page 202 =====
201
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Isger’s status as a mistreated vassal state of Cheliax 
overshadows much of the nation’s past. For seven 
centuries, Chelaxian and Isgeri noble houses plundered 
what resources the land had to offer. What wealth 
was gained from the lumber, minerals, and gems 
harvested, generations of ruling stewards squandered. 
Though threats rose and dangers imperiled, the rich 
and powerful cared only for the flow of coin on the 
waters of the Conerica River. And so, whenever the 
common folk of Isger suffered strife—be it famine, 
disease, or war—they often faced it alone.
The Goblinblood Wars from nearly three decades 
ago exemplified this neglect. The Chitterwood hordes 
razed entire rural communities while the Isgeri 
army failed to make a timely response. Hedvend 
VI, then only a couple of years into his stewardship, 
issued token military orders to protect assets of the 
upper class and the capital. As more settlements 
succumbed, waves of soldiers deserted their posts, 
further lowering morale and straining resources. The 
violence of the Goblinblood Wars thus inevitably 
spread beyond the nation.
By the time Isger’s neighbors intervened, both 
banks of the Conerica were overrun. Miraculously, 
the riverside town of Saringallow stood relatively 
unscathed amid the wreckage. Protected by its historic 
ramparts, this defense attracted not only refugees but 
also soldiers looking to recuperate. That the town’s 
location by the river expedited travel to all corners of 
Isger was another strategic boon for retreating action 
or reinforcements.
Convenience, 
however, 
didn’t 
automatically 
translate to support. Saringallow was but a small 
settlement back then, with plans to shelter 2,000 
denizens at most. Without official resupply channels 
from the government, the town’s food stores shrank 
quickly from the influx of people. Alarmed, the then-
mayor passed a highly controversial ordinance upon 
the foreign forces. Each soldier was allowed a meal 
and a night of rest per week. Those wounded could 
stay a fortnight but would consequently be barred 
from town for a month.
Predictably, many locals disagreed with the 
absurd rules and began circumnavigating it. They 
took strangers into their homes, claiming them to 
be distant cousins or similar relations. Some even 
risked foraging, fishing, or hunting outside the walls 
to privately resupply the troops. However suspicious 
they were of outsiders, the inhabitants of Saringallow 
knew Isger needed help. If there was a time to defy law 
and culture for the good of the nation, it was then or 
never again.
Allegedly, sheltering foreign troops in secrecy was 
how the unlikely alliance between the Eagle Knights, 
Hellknights, and Mercenary League started. Claims 
purport three commanders awkwardly discovered 
each other’s true affiliations while hiding under the 
same false identity and roof. After coming clean, 
the three recognized their shared goal. Even when 
their generals refused to ally over philosophical 
differences, the commanders tacitly coordinated their 
troop movements anyway. Several victories later, the 
reluctant higher-ups acknowledged the effectiveness of 
cooperation and established a formal alliance… or so 
the Saringallow folklore whisper.
The famed alliance saved Isger at an immense cost. 
Death took with it many who witnessed how the 
coalition formed. Capitalizing on the uncertainty to 
hide his incompetence, Hedvend VI insinuated he was 
the one who secretly brought the heroes together. When 
Saringallow attempted to suggest otherwise, the steward 
warned he might direct recovery efforts and future 
protection toward more “important” locations. Yet full 
of refugees, Saringallow held its tongue to survive and 
rebuild. For years, it reverted back to the town known 
only for its grim name, tragic past, and superstitions. 
The past Saringallow hides from—be it the city’s 
own founding or the role it played in the Goblinblood 
Wars—speaks a simple truth: the settlement was 
always meant to be a stage on which rebellions against 
establishments, dogma, or tyranny played out. What 
manifests as paranoia was at its heart a wariness 
toward power.
Since recovering from a demonic corruption 
crisis, a renewed growth has revived a spark of that 
destiny in Saringallow. While the young city yet 
maintains the tradition of exclusive social circles, the 
spaces in between have allowed those who would’ve 
been enemies in the past to reconcile. People now 
maintained the traditional social distance not out of 
fear, but rather to abstain from superficial judgment. 
For the modern Saringallow, actions in times of 
Saringallow

===== Page 203 =====
202
crisis measured one’s trustworthiness most truly. 
As the red haze of a nascent war approaches from 
the horizon, Saringallow once again readies itself to 
bear witness to what’s to come next in Isger’s future, 
whether it be a turn for the better or one for the 
worse.
SARINGALLOW	
SETTLEMENT 5
CITY
Small city harboring rebellion
Government Mayor (elected leader)
Population 2,550 (80% human, 8% aiuvarin, 4% halfling, 3% 
goblins, 3% gnomes, 2% other)
Languages Common (Taldane)
Religion Erastil, Milani
Threats Disgruntled fey, escalating warfare, restless undead
Cautious and Wary Residents of Saringallow think twice 
about what they see, hear, and otherwise perceive. 
Once per day, creatures who have lived in the city for a 
week (cumulatively) can reroll a failed Perception check 
or Will save with a +2 item bonus when they’re within 
Saringallow. Whenever a Saringallow local ties with an 
adversary’s initiative roll, the local goes first.
Superstition Savvy Saringallow has a rich tradition of 
gestures, phrases, or tokens for many situations. One is 
bound to work for whatever problem is at hand. Once 
per month, a creature who has lived in Saringallow for a 
least a week (cumulatively) can take a free action with 
the concentrate, linguistic, and 
manipulate traits when they 
attempt a skill check to roll 
twice and take the better result; 
this is a fortune effect. In addition, 
Saringallow sells common talismans 
up to twice its settlement level.
Ildris Ruvarra (kind male human cleric 
of Erastil 6) priest of Erastil 
and local pillar of faith
Jordis Serelli 
(determined 
nonbinary aiuvarin human 
guard captain 5) Saringallow’s 
City Guard captain
Sandra Trinelli (prudent female human mayor 6) current 
mayor of Saringallow
History
Everyone knows Saringallow as the place founded on 
the lynching of the Chelaxian noble house of Sarini. 
The noble house’s servants would go mysteriously 
missing until residents had enough and dealt with the 
Sarinis themselves. Witch hunts mired the settlement’s 
first decade of self-rule. Those in the rural regions 
recall it as a time of dogma. Their ancestors risked 
cultivating the wilderness outside the walls, for to live 
in Saringallow then was to live in intense paranoia. 
The settlement struggled financially, as without 
a manor to serve, there were no goods coming in 
through the docks.
The 
Conerica 
River 
ultimately 
saved 
the 
settlement 
from 
dissolution, 
for 
Saringallow 
managed to stabilize its economy by serving as a 
rest stop for those traveling north and south. In 
time, those traveling by road began using it as a stop 
as well, sometimes as passersby, sometimes to trade 
with those on the river.
Saringallow’s growth was slow for the next two 
centuries, fueled mostly by those who left to find 
fortune and returned upon success. Most who tried 
returned empty-handed if they returned at all. Things 
changed as the town’s third century rolled in, for 
the Goblinblood Wars were on the horizon. During 
the wars, Saringallow persevered. Though the locals 
called their walls the Pauper’s Roof, the ramparts 
were anything but poor in quality. Surviving the war 
intact gave Saringallow a head start on recovery.
Unbeknownst to most, the site where Saringallow is 
today was known as the Crosspaths in older, ancient 
days. Lying almost at the heart of Isger, it was a regular 
place where those who lived on the lands between 
the Aspodell and Menador mountains met, usually to 
reaffirm their alliance. The Sarinis specifically chose 
to construct their manor here, 
for it allowed their guests to 
entertain themselves with some 
amateur archaeology. At one point, 
a beautiful glaive was unearthed 
from the village. The pristine 
historical artifact was sent to 
Elidir, where it stayed ever since.
Government
Saringallow’s mayorship 
started before the death of 
the Sarinis and continued 
on to this day. Originally, the 
THE DEMON BILE INCIDENT
The incident of demonic corruption and demon 
bile mentioned in this gazetteer is a reference to 
the Pathfinder module Gallows of Madness. You 
can read (or even play) through this module for 
the full context of this incident, where mysterious 
events occur at the old abandoned Sarini Estate.
Gallows

===== Page 204 =====
203
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
terms were for life. After the first century, Saringallow 
switched to terms of 5 to 10 years, with the exact 
number being part of the mayor’s proposal during 
their campaign. This made it easier for Saringallow 
to see large infrastructural projects through under 
a single leader. It’s tradition for new candidates to 
start campaigning about two years before the term is 
up, though there have been occasions when it starts 
earlier.
While the settlement elects its mayor, Saringallow 
does answer to Elidir and the Steward of Isger. While 
most of the city enforces the law by Isgeri standards, 
there are some times when Saringallow decides to 
evoke their right to the Old Book. This set of laws is 
reportedly based on an ancient copy of the Abadaran 
Manual of City-Building, so ancient that its title 
actually translates to Laws of Civilization-Building. 
Some Saringallow locals believe the Old Book to be 
more friendly for the disenfranchised, especially if 
they live off the land. Critics of the Old Book point to 
this reason as to why it shouldn’t be used in modern 
times since its considerations are often unsuitable for 
an urban environment.
It’s undeniable that Saringallow is almost a proper 
city; it just needs to properly divide itself into 
districts, name its streets, and number its buildings. 
While Mayor Trinelli has less than a full year left 
in her term, she has significantly increased the city 
hall’s administrative capabilities to prepare for this 
project. This preparation accidentally ended up being 
a boon when the Steward implemented a new tax 
for the ongoing war. Many needed it to be deferred, 
and without the increase in staff to complete all the 
paperwork, Saringallow might have been squeezed 
dry.
Residents
Within the walls, Saringallow is home to over 
2,500 people. Another 800 or so live beyond the 
walls in the rural regions, some of which are almost 
the size of small towns. The population has three 
major demographics: those who descended from the 
Sarini servants, those who immigrated here before 
the Goblinblood Wars, and those who immigrated 
after. The first group is distinguished by their last or 
family name as well as their strict adherence to many 
traditional practices in prayers and superstitions. 
Some Saringallow laws once gave these families 
specific privileges in areas such as land or home 
ownership. Most of these discriminatory laws have 
been phased out in the recent years.
Saringallow was considered a human settlement 
before the Goblinblood Wars; nearly all residents 
without human ancestry today came to reside 
hereafter. For some, it was because their home 
was destroyed and beyond salvage. For others, 
Saringallow’s proven safety gave them peace of mind. 
Halflings and gnomes were among the first to move 
into the city, while goblins and hobgoblins only 
started settling in within the last few years. The first of 
the goblinoids were even paid to move to the city, as 
Saringallow realized the best way to prevent conflict 
with the Chitterwood was to accept its people first.
Age is usually a better determiner of how 
a Saringallow resident acts nowadays. Older 
residents are more distant, superstitious, stoic, 
and hardworking. Younger residents and newer 
immigrants are opportunistic, direct, and open-
minded. Those in their teens and under are almost 
universally mischievous and curious. Regardless of 
age, nearly all Saringallow folk despise nobility and 
aristocracy. Even the kindest of noble runaways need 
to prove themselves before they find acceptance here, 
which resulted in these scions forming their own 
private community like everyone else in Saringallow.
Culture and Society
Closed social circles remain an integral part of 
Saringallow culture. Folks used to believe that one 
SARINGALLOW HOLIDAYS
Below are a list of holidays and festivals the 
city observes in some form or fashion. Unofficial 
holidays that are developing are marked with an 
asterisk. Those being phased out are in italics.
•	 Abadius: 6th Vault Day; 23rd Steward’s Day
•	 Calistril: 2th Merrymead; 19th Loyalty Day
•	 Pharast: 3th Day of Bones; Vernal Equinox 
Firstbloom and Planting Week
•	 Gozran: 7th Currentseve; 15th Taxfest
•	 Desnus: First New Moon Nightgallop; Last 
Week Shearwalk
•	 Sarenith: 6th Vault Day; Summer Solstice 
Succession
•	 Erastus: 3th Archerfeast; Second Week Oaksplit
•	 Arodus: 13th Gallows Day; 16th Armasse*
•	 Rova: First Week First Brewing; Second Oathday 
Signing Day; Autumn Equinox Market’s Door
•	 Lamashan: 21st Snowsow; 30th Allbirth*
•	 Neth: 14th Even-Tongue Day; Second Week 
Harvest Feast
•	 Kuthona: Third Week Winter Week; Winter 
Solstice Loomgather

===== Page 205 =====
Saringallow
204
could live their entire life in the settlement and never 
meet the soul that will become their neighbor in 
the graveyard. In some ways, this might be true. As 
schooling is primarily conducted by one’s own family 
and apprenticeship remains the best path to a career, 
there isn’t a lot of social mobility in Saringallow. 
One’s class and status are often decided upon birth; 
only adventuring and a decorated military career can 
predictably break those expectations.
While magic was once greatly feared, that attitude has 
changed significantly after the Godsrain. Saringallow 
once saw divine powers as the most reliable—or at 
least predictably good or evil. Witnessing the death of 
a god has made many reconsider. Most settled on the 
sentiment that the intent of the magic user mattered 
most, not the magic itself. People should be judged by 
who they are, not what powers they wielded. Anti-
magic signage has been taken down, and magic users 
have been emboldened to be more open about their 
abilities when they once might have hid them.
One thing that does unite Saringallow is its holidays. 
While many are observed in Avistan at large, a few 
are local attractions. There’s the Nightgallop, a horse 
race in rural Saringallow that takes place at night on 
the first full moon of spring. Succession, on the other 
hand, is a day when apprentices receive their badge 
of approval from their teachers in a literal torch-
passing ceremony.
Many of the local holidays are then related to 
agriculture, such as Shearwalk, a week chasing 
down sheep to shear; Oaksplit, a time when lumber 
is processed; Snowsow, blessing of the grains that 
will be used for winter wheat; Harvest Feast, a time 
of communal meals; and Loomgather, a localized 
version of the Shelynite Crystalhue. Gallows Day, 
which commemorates the city’s founding, was a 
somber day of religious observance in the past but 
has been commercialized recently in an attempt to 
attract tourism.
Notable People
No one knows where Elleri “Gram” Smalltoes 
(mysterious female halfling candler 4) came from; 
some say she’s as old as Saringallow itself. The candler 
mostly keeps to herself except to nag her customers. 
In truth, Gram was a runaway slave before the 
Emancipation Edict and harbors a grudge against 
Cheliax for all its sins against her.
A
A
A
Q
P
O
R
N
H
F
E
D
A
C
M
L
A
A
I
S
T
K
J
G
B
O
800
800
FEET
FEET

===== Page 206 =====
205
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Old Hawk (stubborn male human fearmonger 4) is 
one of the oldest residents of Saringallow and holds to 
various superstitions, including lining his house with 
salt and eating tons of garlic. He’s convinced that, one 
day soon, the Sarinis will descend upon Saringallow to 
reclaim what was once theirs, and he’s determined to 
be ready for it. Many of the younger folk humor his 
ravings by accepting garlic garlands and promising to 
train in fighting, but the older folk are getting tired of 
his constant fearmongering.
Mayor Sandra Trinelli (prudent female human 
mayor 6) believes in modernization and reform. This 
outlook clashes with some of the older residents, who 
cling to superstition and are wary of change. Slowly 
but surely, the mayor hopes to pave the way for growth 
in Saringallow as it teeters on the edge of becoming a 
potentially major city.
Maire Phelan (jovial female human storyteller 3) 
has lived in Saringallow for only a short time, settling 
there after traveling as a storytelling bard. She has 
witnessed firsthand the neglect and atrocities of the 
Isgeri government (and implicitly, the Chelaxian 
government) and knows the people need hope. Using 
her stories, she works to uplift the people.
Relationships and Conflicts
Saringallow’s reputation is quite pristine these days, 
and the city maintains good relations with many 
settlements within Isger, particularly the nearby town 
of Swiftrun. Within the city, however, there have been 
more and more interpersonal conflicts. Some are more 
private in nature that inadvertently spill over into the 
community, while others are of the public interest. 
The most likely conflict though is from a source 
Saringallow has likely not faced before, in recent 
memory at least: the fey.
Many mourn that the simple settlement has lost its 
rustic charm, and the fey are no different, chafing at 
the influx of people and structures. While it isn’t the 
city’s fault that no one has communed with the fey 
in centuries, Saringallow might find itself under attack 
again if its people don’t come to realize the growing 
grudge of their primal neighbors.
Places of Interest
As a burgeoning city, Saringallow has a mix of old, 
new, and even historical locations of interest to visit.
A. Gallow Farms: The six Gallow Farms have been 
responsible for maintaining Saringallow’s emergency 
ration supply since the settlement’s establishment. 
Some are family-run and passed down through the 
generations, while others have been bought and 
sold. With the recent formation of slums along the 
north wall and a rise in theft of crops, the farms are 
campaigning for a change in mayorship. Gerudina 
Mezeret (meticulous female halfling farmer 4), the 
most senior of the owners, is their candidate of choice. 
Though Gerudina has plans for social housing and 
punitive measures against unregulated construction, 
her lack of opinion on other issues is criticized.
B. City Watch Barracks: After the demon bile 
incident, Saringallow expanded its security. The city 
watch barrack was established within the Noble 
Folly’s gate. Despite the obvious move to deter youths 
from sneaking out, guards continue to catch children 
of all ages attempting the traditional dare of going up 
the Noble Folly’s path.
The barracks is fully equipped with its own watch 
towers, a training yard, stables, a dormitory for two 
dozen guards, and a mess hall. Captain Jordis Serelli 
(determined nonbinary aiuvarin human guard captain 
5) runs the squads as tightly as the orphanage they 
grew up in. Under Jordis’s command, the city watch 
handles matters from pickpockets and nightly rounds 
in the graveyard, to frequent noise complaints against 
the new resident band. While Jordis is no Chelaxian 
sympathizer, they dislike insurgents, believing no 
matter how noble the organization’s intent might be, 
they would do more harm than good.
C. Gallow’s Graveyard: With graves as old as the 
city, Saringallow’s graveyard is a place most avoid 
except when necessary. Nolaria Wintren (adventurous 
female human cleric of Erastil 5) surprised many when 
she volunteered to become the new groundskeeper. 
Rumors say that she might have taken up the post 
in an act of adulthood rebellion against her adoptive 
father, Ildris. Others suggest her attachment to the 
place is sentimental.
Since taking over the graveyard, Nolaria has 
cultivated a large canopy of mistletoe as a ward on 
the area against evil. She prunes the patches frequently 
to prevent overgrowth. The cuttings are then used by 
both her and many other artisans in Saringallow to 
create wearable charms in the form of bracelets or 
wreathes.
D. Traveler’s Square: As its name suggests, Traveler’s 
Square is surrounded by inns, eateries, and stores that 
cater to those who are passing through Saringallow, 
usually by the Conerica Highway. The gallows here 
are a popular attraction despite it being forebodingly 
functional and guarded by menacing-looking (but 
polite) city guards. When the weather is pleasant, 
performers like Maire Phelan often line the perimeter 
of the square in the morning, both to earn their keep 
and to serve as a convenient alarm clock for travelers 
who have overslept.

===== Page 207 =====
206
E. City Hall: Realizing that Saringallow would 
require a larger administration soon with its growing 
population, Mayor Trinelli bought this mansion by 
the triangular Crossroad Plaza several years ago. The 
old town hall was given to the city guard to use as a 
second office. Much like before, the building contains 
the mayor’s residence, office, and also Saringallow’s 
town records. New additions include a large registry 
office that keeps track of paperwork, from census to 
deeds, as well as a cartography department dedicated 
to surveying rural Saringallow. A courthouse is 
currently being furnished, though a judge has yet to be 
officially hired or appointed.
Trinelli’s former secretary, Lupia Marietti (curious 
female human historian 3), has been promoted to City 
Historian. While her research has uncovered curious 
records about the Saringallow region before Isger 
was founded, Lupia has reservations on whether the 
information should go public during such politically 
turbulent times.
F. Temple of Erastil: This temple to Old Deadeye is 
likely the oldest structure in Saringallow, second only to 
the half-derelict Sarini Manor. While it has undergone 
many expansions and renovations over the centuries, 
the building remains dedicated to serving the public. The 
temple’s contribution in health, nutrition, and shelter 
is the predominant reason why most in Saringallow 
consider Erastil to be their patron god. Other faiths, 
especially those popular in Cheliax, have found it rather 
difficult to establish a foothold in the city as a result.
Ildris Ruvarra (kind male human cleric of Erastil 
6) has served as the head priest to the temple for 
nearly 20 years. With recent political developments, 
he’s distanced himself from associating with any side, 
stating he wishes to focus on ensuring the city’s food 
security and agricultural needs. That said, no one—
even Hellbreakers who disclose their affiliation—
has ever been refused treatment or assistance by the 
temple’s staff or Ildris.
G. Hellbreakers’ Headquarters: This two-story 
residence is difficult to locate unless one has a 
guide. The Hellbreakers obtained the property at 
a slight discount after helping the original owners, 
the Vazarros, restart their life elsewhere. On paper, 
the property is under Rhokrag’s (hardened male 
hobgoblin warrior 3) name, though Phoebe and Alceo 
are known “tenants.” The three regularly consecrating 
the house has endeared them to their neighbors, who 
respectfully keep quiet whenever Captain Jordis is in 
the neighborhood.
H. Saringallow’s Sundries: The city’s co-op venture 
supplies travelers with general adventuring gear and 
basic weapons and armor. The store also occasionally 
sells silver and cold iron weapons, though the demand 
has long exceeded the supply. Last year, an aviary 
was added to start a courier pigeon service to major 
settlements in and out of Isger. Abdil Nestthew (discreet 
male human scribe 3), hired directly from the partner 
aviary in Logas, acts as both caretaker to the birds and 
letter-writer-in-proxy. While the Hellbreakers would 
love to have Abdil as an ally, Maire’s probing so far 
suggests the young man has an intense dislike for 
conspiracy and intrigue.
I. Saringallow Orchard: This apple orchard 
unfortunately suffered from repeated infestations 
after the demon bile incident. The land was ultimately 
donated to the Temple of Erastil and consecrated 
for years to end the vermin problem. After its first 
successful harvest, a new co-op venture took off.
Today, gallow apple preserves and dried slices have 
become popular gifts to buy in Saringallow, available at 
the sundries store and several dockside stalls. The temple 
intends for the funds to ultimately go toward building 
a school, though whether that will prevent the youths 
from skipping their chores, classes, or apprenticeship to 
hang out in the orchard remains to be seen.
J. Witch’s End Tavern: This tavern managed by 
Alicie Kruptin (tough female human tavern keeper 4) is 
especially popular with more conservative Saringallow 
residents, as it implemented a heavy “no magic unless 
of divinity” policy after the demon bile incident. The 
entire tavern is under a strong magic suppression field, 
which has caused a number of issues to even those who 
might have simply passed by. Exactly who or what 
Alicie has employed, she refuses to say, other than it’s 
safer than whatever is being prevented on her premise.
K. Dependable Drummady’s: Once a simple 
cobbler shop, Dependable Drummady’s is a full-on 
haberdashery and boutique these days. Drummady 
Laterna (ambitious female human cobbler 4) 
expanded her business over the past decade with 
good word-of-mouth and a sharp eye for fashion that 
picks up trends faster than Elidir. Though not a full-
on member, Drummady has helped the Hellbreakers 
with disguises many times in the past. Even her 
staff knows little of her activities since she often 
conducts them outside of shop hours. As one of the 
stockholders behind Saringallow’s Sundries and the 
Saringallow Orchard, Drummady holds quite a bit of 
influence in the city’s economic circles.
L. The Lucky Anvil: Ludoff Smeltbristle (boisterous 
male dwarf blacksmith 5) first visited Saringallow as 
a tinkerer for his family’s caravan from the Five Kings 
Mountains about a decade ago. He immediately fell 
in love with Saringallow’s surroundings, both nature 
and urban. After moving to the city proper, he slowly

===== Page 208 =====
207
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
established himself as a reliable smith. A rebel at heart, 
Ludoff secretly supports the Hellbreakers and crafts 
items for them in his spare time.
M. 
Mashnom’s 
Mercs 
and 
Mortar: 
When 
the Stonechewer goblinoid tribe first moved to 
Saringallow, they had a difficult time finding those 
willing to provide housing to the clan. Ultimately, the 
goblins and hobgoblins decided that, if people won’t 
lease, then they’ll just build their own homes. Under 
the leadership of Mashnom (mute female goblin union 
leader 5), a vibrant goblinoid community was born in 
Saringallow. While the unofficial “Chitterstone Road” 
has many regular businesses that cater to daily needs 
(with products especially beloved by goblinoids), it’s 
most famous for its construction companies, excellent 
masons, and mercenary associations.
N. Gerty’s Hearty Breads: Claiming “the heartiest 
damn breads this side o’ the river,” this bakery’s 
signage has an additional piece hanging underneath 
that reads, “Now with Pastries and Pies!” The bakery’s 
owner, Gerty Keronna (stern male human baker 4), 
spends more time chatting with customers nowadays 
than at the oven. The chronic pain from his old leg 
injury from the Goblinblood Wars prevents him from 
standing for long. Fortunately, his past apprentice 
Noemi Tauralio (squeamish female human baker 3) 
has become a baker in her own right. Xerra Bluebottle 
(kind genderfluid halfling baker 2) is a joy to work 
with too. The halfling likes to take home leftover 
bread for the Hellbreakers at the end of the day.
O. Merchant’s Square: The Merchant’s Square 
regularly holds auctions for various goods and wares 
at different hours of the day. Those in the day are a 
cacophony, while those at night are pleasantly quiet so 
the nearby residents can rest. Petrello Pindlion (greedy 
male human fur trader 6), who schedules the auctions, 
is pretty well known for being willing to move time 
slots around and “forget” to inform a seller of a 
schedule change if his commission rates are upped by a 
percent or two. Petrello has also been making political 
endeavors, promising to provide tax cuts and establish 
trade deals with cities outside of Isger through his 
children. While it’s known his son and daughter are in 
Druma and Cheliax respectively, Petrello’s campaign 
remains speculative for most.
P. Pricknettle’s Potions and Poultices: Majara 
Pricknettle (curt female gnome alchemist 4) is 
often overworked these days with custom orders 
for remedies. Rather than take on an apprentice, 
Majara insists on hiring contract workers instead, 
especially those who are working hard to establish 
themselves in the city. As an immigrant from Umok, 
she knows all too well the struggles of integrating 
into Saringallow, even if that barrier has lowered 
considerably in recent times.
Q. Queenly Quriosities: As one of the first shops 
dedicated to the purchase and sale of magic items, 
many visitors are decidedly nervous to step beyond 
the beaded curtains of the front door. To make the 
experience more entertaining than anxious, the store’s 
proprietor, Lukus Melchian (resolute male gnome 
harrower 4), adopts the persona of a motherly fortune-
teller by the name of “Mama Yaga.” In addition to 
suggesting the best lucky charms for the season, Mama 
Yaga always mentions that her extensive private 
collection of books on all things magical is available 
to peruse for any whose heart is in the right place.
R. The Fiend’s Finale: Once known as the Fortnight 
Inn, this establishment is a popular spot to dine late 
into the night. Morvinarr Albusin (superstitious male 
human innkeeper 3) bought the place a couple of 
years ago and refurbished the historic inn with his 
savings. As Alicie’s apprentice, Morvinarr’s dishes are 
famously delicious. The innkeeper, however, considers 
his food a bonus to the real attraction: Saringallow’s 
new resident band, Oasis Rain Showers (outspoken 
male anadi, male human, female knoll, female elf, and 
agender aiuvarin human bards 3).
Made up of five Magaambya graduates—one 
of each branch—Oasis Rain Showers haven’t only 
been influencing Saringallow’s cultural scene, their 
understanding and willingness to explain magic is 
one of the reasons why Saringallow has softened its 
attitude toward magic considerably in recent years. 
That and the famous “sing a Chelaxian loyalist out of 
town” incident, of course.
S. Beacon Candles Workshop: After the Hellbreakers 
bought this abandoned warehouse, they discovered 
it wasn’t as inconspicuous as they’d hoped for a 
headquarters. Gram (mysterious female human 
chandler 4), one of the oldest Hellbreaker recruits, 
suggested that they keep it anyway as a decoy. The 
result is the Beacon Candles Workshop, whose carved 
candles help fund the Hellbreakers. Gram even worked 
out a way to pass secret messages by the colors of the 
candles she makes as well as their carved patterns and 
shapes.
T. Conerica Docks: Though more boats are 
docking in Saringallow these days than ever before, 
Bartle Rudderport (skeptical male human wharfinger 
4) keeps meticulous track of all inventory passing 
through. He’s ever concerned of smugglers ruining 
the reputation of the city. Despite this, Bartle has 
given the Hellbreakers several second chances and 
sometimes even points out how the organization 
could improve their subterfuge.

===== Page 209 =====
208

===== Page 210 =====
Items
Characters can find the following new items throughout 
this adventure.
ALCHEMICAL ITEMS
ATROPHY BOMB	
ITEM 1+
UNCOMMON
ALCHEMICAL
BOMB
CONSUMABLE
SPLASH
VOID
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Strike
Atrophy bombs contain powerful chemicals developed by 
Urgathoan alchemists that sap a living creature’s strength 
and drain their energy. A primary living target that takes 
damage from an atrophy bomb becomes enfeebled until 
the start your next turn. Many types of bombs grant an 
item bonus to attack rolls.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp
The bomb deals 1d4 persistent void damage and 1 void 
splash damage, and the target is enfeebled 1 until the start 
of your next turn. 
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 11 gp
You gain a +1 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 
2d4 persistent void damage and 2 void splash damage, and 
the target is enfeebled 1 until the start of your next turn.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 255 gp
You gain a +2 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 
3d4 persistent void damage and 3 void splash damage, and 
the target is enfeebled 2 until the start of your next turn.
Type major; Level 17; Price 2,550 gp
You gain a +3 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 
4d4 persistent void damage and 4 void splash damage, and 
the target is enfeebled 2 until the start of your next turn.
BORTLED FAVORITE 	
ITEM 2+
UNCOMMON
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
PROCESSED
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] (manipulate)
An Isgeri specialty from Etran’s Folly, this root vegetable 
porridge was named after the dwarf trader Bort Bargith. 
When you eat this porridge, you can Hustle for an 
additional 10 minutes during exploration. This lasts for 
24 hours or until you make your next daily preparations, 
whichever comes first.
Type lesser; Level 2; Price 5 gp
Type moderate; Level 5; Price 25 gp
You can Hustle for an additional 20 minutes.
SERENE SMELLING SALTS	
ITEM 1
UNCOMMON
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] (manipulate)
This package of smelling salts has such a pungent stench, 
it can snap any creature out of a panicked state. When 
used on yourself or a creature within your reach, that 
target reduces the value of its frightened condition by 1 
and becomes temporarily immune to any serene smelling 
salts for 1 hour.
SILVERSCRAP BOMB	
ITEM 3+
UNCOMMON
ALCHEMICAL
BOMB
CONSUMABLE
SPLASH
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Strike
Silverscrap bombs are compact clusters of silver shards 
that explode upon impact, shredding everything in the 
vicinity. The bomb grants an item bonus to attack rolls 
and deals piercing damage and piercing splash damage, 
according to the bomb’s type. All damage from the bomb 
is treated as silver for the purposes of weaknesses, 
resistances, and the like.
Type lesser; Level 3; Price 11 gp
You gain a +1 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 
2d4 piercing damage and 2 piercing splash damage.
Type moderate; Level 11; Price 255 gp
You gain a +2 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 
3d4 piercing damage and 3 piercing splash damage.
Type greater; Level 17; Price 2,550 gp
You gain a +3 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 
4d4 piercing damage and 4 piercing splash damage.
VERDANT POULTICE	
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
HEALING
Price 27 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
Activate [one-action] (manipulate)
This poultice of herbs and dried berries found throughout 
Isger was invented by those fighting against Cheliax’s 
diabolic intrusion and those warring against demons at the 
Worldwound. You can use a verdant poultice on a creature 
that’s taking persistent damage from a fiend; attempt a 
Nature check with a +1 item bonus against the DC of the 
effect that caused the persistent damage. On a success, the 
persistent damage ends.
Adventure Toolbox
209
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 211 =====
WARDING PASTE	
ITEM 6
RARE
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Price 50 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
Activate [three-actions] (manipulate) 
Silver filings to ward off fiends, cold iron filings to repulse 
demons and fey, and powders made from garlic, peppers, 
and wort to repel undead creatures are combined into this 
gritty paste. A container of warding paste contains enough 
to cover one suit of armor or set of clothes. For the next 
hour, creatures with the unholy trait take a –1 circumstance 
penalty to melee attacks against the affected outfit’s wearer.
MAGICAL CONSUMABLES
GREASED AXLE	
ITEM 2
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
TALISMAN
Price 7 gp
Usage affixed to armor; Bulk —
Activate [one-action] (concentrate) Requirements You’re grabbed or 
restrained.
When rogues and scoundrels find themselves in sticky 
situations, a greased axle is a quick way out. You attempt a 
check to Escape, with a +1 item bonus to your check. If you 
critically fail, you get a failure instead.
HARPY’S TALON	
ITEM 1
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
TALISMAN
Price 3 gp
Usage affixed to a slashing weapon; Bulk —
Activate [free-action] (concentrate) Trigger You successfully Strike a 
creature with the affixed weapon.
This sharp metal claw is used to inflict additional pain upon 
your enemies. When you activate the harpy’s talon, the 
weapon deals persistent bleed damage equal to the number 
of weapon damage dice. If the Strike was a critical success, 
the persistent bleed damage increases to twice the number 
of weapon damage dice.
IMPELLING SYMBOL	
ITEM 8
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
TALISMAN
VITALITY
Price 75 gp
Usage affixed to armor; Bulk —
Activate [free-action] (concentrate) Trigger You Cast a Spell that 
restores Hit Points to another creature.
This simple religious symbol bolsters you when you 
help others. When you activate it, you gain a number of 
temporary Hit Points equal to your level plus the rank of the 
spell you cast. These temporary Hit Points last for 1 minute.
MARVELOUS MINIATURE, SWIFT SPARROW	 ITEM 2
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
EXPANDABLE
MAGICAL
Price 6 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
Activate [one-action] (manipulate)
When activated, this miniature transforms into a seemingly 
mundane sparrow. The sparrow flies to a destination of 
your choice within 200 feet that you can see, then Seeks 
in a 30-foot burst using your Perception modifier before 
returning. The sparrow then unravels into a small map of the 
area it perceived, including any creatures it saw. The map is 
rudimentary and doesn’t reveal anything the sparrow failed 
to perceive.
RESTFUL SALVE	
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
OIL
Price 30 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] (manipulate)
A restful salve is a compound that can be applied to the skin 
to prevent undeath. If applied to a fresh corpse, the corpse 
doesn’t decay, nor can it be transformed into an undead or 
otherwise controlled until the sun rises the next morning. If 
applied to a living creature, this salve lasts for only 1 hour due 
to the body’s natural excretions. For that duration, the salve 
wards off effects that would cause undeath upon dying.
SMUGGLER’S PADLOCK	
ITEM 3
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
EXTRADIMENSIONAL
MAGICAL
Price 50 gp
Usage held in 2 hands (see text); Bulk L
Activate 1 minute (manipulate)
This padlock exists in a dormant state while it’s closed and 
its associated key is in the keyhole. To activate this item, 
you remove the key, which causes the keyhole to become 
a portal to an extradimensional space. This space can hold 
a single object of up to 1 Bulk by pressing it against the 
keyhole. At any point within the next 24 hours, the key 
can be used to open the lock with an Interact action, which 
safely releases the item onto the ground in your space. 
If the lock isn’t opened within the next 24 hours, the key 
disintegrates, and from then on, a creature who succeeds at 
a DC 16 Thievery check can Pick the Lock open to release 
the item. On a critical failure, the padlock is destroyed and 
its contents are lost forever.
THORN OF MILANI	
ITEM 3+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
TALISMAN
Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk —
Activate [free-action] (concentrate) Trigger You hit a creature with 
the affixed weapon.
This pure white thorn glows bright with the spirit of justice. 
When you activate the thorn, you deal an additional 1d4 
spirit damage with the holy trait. You then gain weakness 1 
to unholy until the end of your next turn. 
Type lesser; Level 3; Price 12 gp
210

===== Page 212 =====
Type moderate; Level 7; Price 60 gp
You deal an additional 2d4 spirit damage and don’t gain 
weakness to unholy.
UNASSUMING FACE PAINT
ITEM 3
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
Price 16 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk —
Activate [three-actions] (manipulate)
When these drab pigments are applied to your 
face, you appear plain and inconspicuous for 
10 minutes. You gain a +2 item bonus 
to Stealth checks and DCs while 
blending into a crowd during this 
time. If you take a hostile action, 
the effects of unassuming face 
paint immediately end.
WORN AND OTHER PERMANENT 
ITEMS
DEVILWING BADGE
ITEM 4+
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
SPELLHEART
Usage affixed to armor or a weapon; Bulk —
This small tearing of a devil’s wing has been cleansed with 
holy water before being mounted onto a silver badge. The 
spell attack modifier of any spell cast by Activating this 
item is +8, and the spell DC is 18. 
•	 Armor You gain resistance 2 to fire and unholy.
•	 Weapon After you cast a spell by Activating the 
devilwing badge, your Strikes with the weapon deal 
an additional 1d4 spirit damage until the end of your 
next turn.
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You cast divine lance.
Type devilwing badge; Level 4; Price 90 gp
Type greater devilwing badge; Level 8; Price 425 gp
Resistance when affixed to armor is 5, extra damage when 
affixed to a weapon is 1d6, the spell attack modifier is +14, 
and the spell DC is 24. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Frequency once per day; Effect You 
cast crisis of faith.
Type major devilwing badge; Level 12; Price 1,750 gp
Resistance when affixed to armor is 10, extra damage when 
affixed to a weapon is 1d8, the spell attack modifier is +19, 
and the spell DC is 29. 
Activate Cast a Spell; Frequency once per day; Effect You 
cast 4th-rank crisis of faith.
Activate Cast a Spell; Frequency once per day; Effect You 
cast divine wrath.
HELLHUSK SHROUD	
ITEM 6
UNCOMMON
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Price 230 gp
Usage worn cloak; Bulk — 
This hooded cloak is popular among those who must evade 
or surveil fiendish authorities. The grisly secrets behind 
this garment belies its innocuous appearance; its 
fabrics include threads woven from the hair, 
blood, and scales of various devils. When 
invested, a hellhusk shroud doesn’t appear to 
radiate a magic aura to detect magic or similar 
spells unless the spells are 4th rank or higher. 
As long as you’re wearing the cloak, you can 
read and speak Diabolic.
Activate—Horned 
Husk 
[one-action] 
(illusion, 
manipulate, olfactory, visual) Frequency once 
per day; Effect The cloak wraps around you, 
becoming a second skin that suffuses you with 
Hell’s corrosive brimstone. Your appearance 
becomes that of a nondescript low-level 
devil, and you gain a +1 status bonus to your 
Deception checks when you Lie to maintain 
your disguise. To creatures with scent, you 
also smell like a devil.
Activate—Hellish Senses [one-action] (concentrate, manipulate) 
Frequency once per day; Effect You pull your hood up, 
allowing the remnants of fallen devils to nestle closely 
and whisper Hell’s secrets. You gain fiendsense as an 
imprecise sense within 60 feet, allowing you to sense 
creatures with the fiend trait as a vague sense. This 
effect lasts for 10 minutes or until you take this action 
again.
LAZYBONES PENDANT	
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Price 130 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
A lazybones pendant is a six-sided die pendant carved from 
the regretful bones of Work-Too-Hard Whappa, a goblin 
unusually industrious in life and said to be making up for a 
long-overdue rest in his afterlife. Depicted on the five sides 
of this six-sided die are representations of Whappa engaged 
in various acts of slothful mischief, while the remaining 
side is utterly blank; apparently, he’s so engrossed in his 
indolence that even his image has forgotten to show up on 
that side of the die.
When you wear and invest in this pendant, you gain a +1 
item bonus to checks when you Follow the Expert.
Activate—Can’t Someone Else Do It? [three-actions] (concentrate, 
manipulate, occult) Frequency once per day; Effect 
You cast phantasmal minion, summoning an ephemeral 
version of yourself. When you Activate the pendant and 
each time you Sustain the spell, your phantasmal minion 
gains a reaction that can be used only to Aid an ally. 
It uses your skills for any skill checks and can’t Aid an 
attack.
211
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Hellhusk Shroud

===== Page 213 =====
RING OF FAIR ASSESSMENT	
ITEM 7
UNCOMMON
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Price 350 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
While the Kalistocrats of Druma profiteer off 
selling weapons to both Hellbreakers and 
Hellknights, they also offer options suitable for 
intelligence and counterintelligence efforts. 
This white gold ring grants you a +1 item 
bonus to skill checks to Decipher Writing 
that’s primarily numerical or mathematical in 
nature as well as to skill checks to Make an 
Impression and Coerce to convince others of the 
fairness or accuracy of your judgments.
Activate—Fair Assessment [two-actions] (concentrate, 
manipulate, mental) Frequency once 
per hour; Effect The Prophecies of 
Kalistrade reveal the secrets of wealth 
to you; this appears as a balance sheet 
of numbers only you can see. Choose an area of up to 
1 cubic foot within 30 feet; you can estimate the value 
in gold pieces of any items within this area. If you 
attempt to estimate the value of items worn or held 
by a creature, you must succeed at a Society check to 
Decipher Writing against their Will DC.
ROBE OF THE ERINYS	
ITEM 3+
UNCOMMON
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn garment; Bulk L
This exquisite scarlet robe embroidered with golden depictions 
of fiends and their weapons is fashioned after the garb of 
the cloistered Sisters of the Golden Erinys. The robe’s belt is 
embroidered to look like a snake, complete with metal fangs.
Activate—Biting Belt [two-actions] (concentrate, manipulate) 
Frequency once per day; Effect You remove the robe’s 
belt and snap it at an enemy within your reach. As 
you do, it briefly animates to bite that foe, dealing 2d8 
poison damage with a basic DC 18 Fortitude save. On a 
critical failure, the target is also sickened 1.
Type robe of the erinys; Level 3; Price 55 gp
Type greater robe of the erinys; Level 8; Price 475 gp
The snake deals 4d8 poison damage, and the DC is 24.
Type major robe of the erinys; Level 13; Price 2,750 gp
The snake deals 6d8 poison damage, and the DC is 31.
SHACKLEBREAKER	
ITEM 4
UNCOMMON
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn; Bulk L
This bracelet has three charms depicting a dagger, a shield, 
and a rose. While wearing this bracelet, you gain a +1 item 
bonus to Thievery checks. Whenever you roll a success to 
free someone from manacles, it counts as two successes 
(three on a critical success).
Activate—No Chains [reaction] (manipulate) Frequency once per day; 
Trigger A creature attempts to Grapple you; Requirements 
You are aware of the creature and aren’t off-guard; Effect 
The bracelet yanks your body in one direction, 
attempting to throw off your attacker’s grip. You 
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your Fortitude 
DC against the triggering Grapple.
Type shacklebreaker; Level 4; Price 100 gp
Type greater shacklebreaker; Level 10; 
Price 950 gp
The item bonus is +2, and the circumstance 
bonus to your Fortitude DC is +2.
TOKEN OF SALT AND EARTH
ITEM 6
RARE
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Price 225 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
This charm is usually worn around the neck or 
hanging from a belt. It consists of a three-part hourglass 
with individual glass bulbs filled with sea salts, charcoal 
ash, and minute slivers of silver. It grants the wearer a 
+1 item bonus to Stealth checks to Hide and Sneak from 
creatures with the unholy trait.
Activate—Hide from the Hateful [two-actions] (illusion, manipulate, 
occult, subtle) Frequency once per day; Effect By 
rotating the charm along one of its concentric rings, 
you become invisible to creatures with the fiend, fey, 
or undead trait (your choice) for 1 minute. If you use a 
hostile action, you’re no longer invisible after the action 
is completed.
WHISPERING WIRE	
ITEM 3+
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
This coiled cord of brightly colored wire can be twisted 
neatly into any shape. 
Activate—Words on the Wind [one-action] (concentrate) Frequency 
once per 10 minutes; Effect You quietly mouth words to 
the wire, which sends them to a target with the effects 
of the message cantrip.
Type whispering wire; Level 2; Price 30 gp
Type greater whispering wire; Level 5; Price 125 gp
The wire duplicates the effects of message at 3rd-rank.
MAGIC ARMOR AND WEAPONS
CALAMITY	
ITEM 8
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
Price 500 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
Hewn from a solid block of ensorcelled stone, this 
+1 striking greatsword is monumental in heft as well 
as destructive force. The weapon is named for the 
212
Shacklebreaker

===== Page 214 =====
disbelieving leaders of the Seventh Army of Exploration, 
who denied the power of such a weapon and claimed 
their losses came from natural disasters. When wielded 
against creatures that are larger than you, the sword 
gains the sweep trait.
Activate—Shatter Legions [two-actions] (earth) Frequency once per 
day; Effect You smash the sword down upon the ground 
with the anger of a conquered land and a subjugated 
people. Each creature in a 30-foot cone takes 4d12 
piercing damage with a DC 24 basic Reflex save as the 
earth shatters beneath their feet. Until the beginning of 
your next turn, you gain the benefits of standard cover 
from the broken soil around you.
CRIMSON THORN	
ITEM 3
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
Price 60 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This +1 asp coil (Pathfinder Lost Omens Hellfire Dispatches 109) 
is used by many trained Sisters of the Golden Erinys. It has 
a deep-red hue on each segment of the blade complemented 
by a pitch-black pommel. Death isn’t the worst outcome for 
someone on the receiving end of its lashes. 
Activate—Taste the Pain [free-action] (manipulate, visual) Frequency 
once per hour; Trigger Your last action was a Strike 
with the crimson thorn that dealt damage to a creature; 
Effect Attempt an Intimidation check to Demoralize the 
creature you dealt damage to with a +2 item bonus to 
the roll. You don’t take any penalties to this check for 
not sharing a language.
DREAMCRUSHER	
ITEM 4
RARE
MAGICAL
Price 80 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
The Order of the Rack uses weapons like the dreamcrusher 
to crush those who dare stand in the way. This +1 longsword 
has additional weight at the tip of its blade for the wielder 
to drive home their strikes.
Activate—Doom the Rebel [one-action] (concentrate, mental) 
Frequency once per 10 minutes; Requirements Your last 
action was a Strike with the dreamcrusher that critically 
hit a creature; Effect The creature you critically hit must 
attempt a DC 19 Will save. On a failure, they take a –1 
status penalty to attack rolls and skill checks for 1 round 
(1 minute on a critical failure). 
FIENDSBANE SHIELD	
ITEM 4
UNCOMMON
HOLY
MAGICAL
Price 70 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This low-grade silver shield (Hardness 3, HP 12, BT 6) is 
equipped with a +1 shield boss emblazoned with the image 
of a beheaded fiend. Any creature with the unholy trait that 
wields the shield becomes enfeebled 2 and can’t recover 
from this condition while wielding the shield.
Activate—Silvery 
Backlash 
[free-action] 
(concentrate, 
holy) 
Frequency once per day; Trigger You Shield Block an 
attack from a creature with the unholy trait; Effect The 
fiendsbane shield’s Hardness increases to 10, and the 
symbol of the beheaded demon lashes out in silvery 
ribbons, dealing 3d6 slashing damage (DC 19 basic 
Reflex save) to the creature whose attack you blocked. 
This damage is treated as silver for the purposes of 
weaknesses, resistances, and the like.
IMPOSING SHIELD	
ITEM 6
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
Price 245 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
A favorite of Hellknights, this steel shield (Hardness 6, 
HP 36, BT 18) is often emblazoned with the symbol of a 
Hellknight order and often notched with the number of 
times it has absorbed damage.
Activate—Terrifying Block [free-action] (concentrate, emotion, fear, 
mental) Frequency once per 10 minutes; Trigger You 
Shield Block; Effect When a weapon strikes an imposing 
shield, the sigil glows with a chilling light. The creature 
that made the attack that triggered your Shield Block 
becomes frightened 2. If the Shield Block reduced the 
incoming damage to 0, the creature instead becomes 
frightened 3.
MAGNETIC BOLA	
ITEM 3
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
Price 60 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This heavy metallic +1 bola is a favorite tool of rebels 
and rabble-rousers against armored opponents. Due to 
its weight, it has a range increment of 15 feet. When you 
successfully Strike a creature made of metal or wearing 
metal armor with this weapon, the bola attaches to 
the metal and the targeted creature takes a –10-foot 
circumstance penalty to its Speed until it spends an 
Interact action to remove the bola.
Activate—Overcharge [one-action] (electricity, manipulate, metal) 
Frequency once per day; Effect You overcharge the 
magnetic properties of the bola. You deal an extra 1d6 
electricity damage with your next Strike with this 
weapon. On a hit, the target must also succeed at a DC 
18 Reflex save or become clumsy 1 round (or clumsy 2 
on a critical failure), in addition to the normal effects. 
If the target is wearing metal armor, they take a –2 
circumstance penalty to their save. 
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include 
a conductive metal.
213
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 215 =====
MARTYR’S SHIELD	
ITEM 7
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
Price 360 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This silvery minor reinforcing steel shield (Hardness 8, HP 
64, and BT 32) bears the image of two soldiers standing 
side-by-side.
Activate—Self Sacrifice [reaction] (manipulate) Frequency once 
per minute; Trigger An ally within 20 feet of you would 
take physical damage; Requirements The martyr’s 
shield is raised; Effect When you activate this shield, it 
magically imposes itself in front of the triggering ally 
and takes the damage for them with the effects of Shield 
Block. Any damage that isn’t prevented by the shield is 
transferred onto you.
THE WONDERS OF THE SEASONS
Long before Taldor’s conquest of Isger, the Kellid 
and early Isgeri created or perhaps retooled powerful 
magical artifacts to mark the seasons of their creation. 
One was Firstbloom, a glaive said to be carved of 
natural and native woods from the Arthfell Forest yet 
stronger than any steel weapon of its like. Another was 
Harvest Feast, a scythe meant to usher in harvest and 
bounty yet rumored to be burdened with a dark past 
and darker present. A summer wonder, Bounty’s Light, 
was said to be a magical torch that could light a field as if 
kissed by sunlight and was a gift traded back and forth 
between the Isgeri and their goblin neighbors as a sign 
of mutual friendship long before any wars fomented 
resentment. The final wonder was known only as Woe, 
but records of its construction and use have long since 
disappeared along with any information about where 
it might reside. See Continuing the Campaign (page 
168) for more on Woe.
These wonders are relic seeds, and the full rules for 
relics and descriptions of the listed gifts, including 
when to advance a relic, appear starting on page 308 
of GM Core.
BOUNTY’S LIGHT	
ITEM 8
UNIQUE
FIRE
MAGICAL
 RELIC
Aspects fire
Usage 1 hand; Bulk L
This magical torch that’s made up of a bouquet of living 
summer flowers functions as a greater staff of fire. Its light 
turns on and off with an Interact action.
Minor Gifts: heat haze, incandescent sight
Major Gifts: jet propulsion, searing wave
Grand Gift: blazing soul
LIFEBLOOM	
ITEM 6
UNIQUE
MAGICAL
 RELIC
WOOD
Aspects life and plant
Usage 2 hands; Bulk 2
This +1 vitalizing striking glaive is said to have been carved 
from a single branch of an ancient white ash tree deep 
in the Arthfell Forest. The grain of the weapon’s blade 
is especially tight, giving the weapon both incredible 
durability and a finish that resembles silver and steel 
folded by a master smith.
Minor Gifts: apothecary’s garden, healing wave
Major Gifts: inextinguishable, petal dance
Grand Gift: life everlasting
REAPER’S SIGH	
ITEM 7
UNIQUE
MAGICAL
 RELIC
VOID
Aspects death
Usage 2 hands; Bulk 2
This +1 wounding striking scythe is a weapon of intricately 
embellished blackened metals and polished surfaces. It 
was originally intended to venerate Urgathoa in her role as 
the herald of autumn in pre-Taldor Isger but has recently 
found more malevolent meaning. With the scythe in her 
hands, Urgathoa was said to cull the harvest for feast to 
usher in the cold, bleak winters. As Urgathoa’s legends 
took a darker tone, the scythe’s own legend was reclaimed 
to venerate Erastil and Pharasma as part of the holiday for 
which it now claims a name.
Minor Gifts: death gaze, living death
Major Gifts: pierce the veil, tide of death
Grand Gift: grim specter
THE STEADFAST KEYSTONE
The divine keystone ritual first appears in the 
Pathfinder Society Adventure #4-02: Return to the 
Grave. This ritual was the invention of a gifted 
Acadamae wizard turned Pharasmin priest named 
Elios. He sought to protect Steadfast, a small 
settlement of refugees in the Gravelands, from 
oncoming hordes of undead under the control of 
a fallen Ivory Reaper. Unfortunately, Elios found 
that the Whispering Tyrant’s influence was too 
great for a common consecration ritual. With the 
instructions Elios left before his own demise, the 
Pathfinder Society successfully imbued a keystone 
from Steadfast’s old Pharasmin temple with the 
divine touch of Pharasma herself, sending a team 
of Pathfinders to bring it to the besieged town and 
rescue the refugees. Since then, the ritual has been 
used to protect several other refugee settlements 
in the Gravelands from becoming overrun by the 
hungry dead.
214

===== Page 216 =====
New Animal Companion
This boarhound is a new animal companion local to 
Isger.
Isgeri Boarhound
UNCOMMON
Through training and selective breeding, the gnomes 
of Umok found ways to capitalize on the native Isgeri 
boarhounds’ exceptional scent abilities and sturdy frame 
to patrol against extraplanar predators and other enemies 
regularly found in the region.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws (finesse), Damage 1d8 piercing
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Survival
Senses foe scent (precise, 40 feet), low-light vision, scent 
(imprecise, 40 feet)
Speed 40 feet
Special As part of daily preparations, the Isgeri boarhound 
can be offered a sample of an enemy with the fiend or 
undead trait, such as a bone, piece of flesh, or similarly 
scented sample that has been acquired within the last 
24 hours. For the next 24 hours, either fiend or undead 
becomes the boarhound’s designated foe. The Isgeri 
boarhound’s foe scent enables it to smell the presence 
of a creature designated as its foe as a precise scent at 
a range of 40 feet.
Support Benefit Your boarhound is a faithful hunting 
companion. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your 
next attack roll to Strike a foe within your boarhound’s 
reach. This bonus lasts until the first time you use 
it or until the beginning of your next turn, whichever 
comes first. If you damage a creature with the trait 
corresponding to your boarhound’s designated foe with 
that Strike, the creature takes an additional 1d6 piercing 
damage from the boarhound. If your boarhound is 
nimble or savage, the damage increases to 2d6.
Advanced Maneuver Lock Jaw
LOCK JAW [one-action]
Requirements The boarhound’s last action was a successful 
jaws Strike. 
The target becomes grabbed, as if the boarhound 
successfully Grappled the target.
New Ritual
The following ritual appears in this adventure.
DIVINE KEYSTONE	
RITUAL 4
RARE
CONSECRATION
HOLY
Cast 4 days; Requirements cornerstone from the structure 
of the casting area used as a locus; Cost holy water, 
powdered silver, and purified chalk worth 200 gp; 
Secondary Casters 1
Primary Check Arcana (master) or Religion (expert); 
Secondary Checks Architecture Lore, Crafting, or 
Engineering Lore
Area 100-foot emanation from the building’s keystone
Duration 1 week
You magically remove and consecrate the cornerstone 
of a building or ruin in the center of a settlement before 
returning the stone to its structure to spread its divine 
protection into the settlement around it. Once the final 
hammer strike returns the stone to its structure, the area 
protected by the sanctified stone becomes a sacred space, 
protecting the living from undead. Within the protected 
area, the consecrated site is holy, undead creatures can’t 
be created or raised, and living creatures are invisible to 
the undead. 
A successful dispel magic used on a specific effect 
removes only that effect (such as the invisibility effect). 
However, destroying or removing the keystone ends the 
entire ritual and all its effects.
Critical Success You create the effects described above, 
and the keystone’s consecration effect doubles its 
radius.
Success You create the effects described above.
Failure The ritual has no effect.
Critical Failure The area becomes a font of power for 
undead for the next month. All undead creatures in the 
ritual’s area gain fast healing 3 and resistance 3 to holy.
Heightened (+1) The emanation protected by the keystone 
increases by 20 feet.
215
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Isgeri Boarhound

===== Page 217 =====
Hellbreaker (Archetype)
Founded in Isger to protest against the injustice 
and apathy of their faraway rulers in Cheliax, the 
Hellbreakers League is a young but growing rebel 
organization determined to make its mark. Members 
of the League swear themselves as agents of rebellion 
to topple the Chelaxian regime and free its vassal 
states from its oppressive rule, starting with Isger. 
The Hellbreakers League knows it’s at a heavy 
disadvantage in its war against Cheliax as a still-
developing group challenging one of the world’s most 
powerful nations. Hellbreaker tactics rely on wit and 
daring as well as knowledge of the fiendish forces their 
enemies might use against them. Through sword, spell, 
and subterfuge, they work tirelessly to liberate the 
oppressed and remove tyrants from power.
Additional Feats: 4th Combat Assessment (Player 
Core 140), Lightning Swap (Player Core 141); 10th 
Blind-Fight (Player Core 145), Felling Strike (Player 
Core 146)
HELLBREAKER DEDICATION	
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Access You’re a member of the Hellbreakers league.
By joining the League, you’ve taken on the responsibilities 
of a Hellbreaker. You gain the Additional Lore general feat 
for both Devil Lore and Hellknight Lore. If you were already 
trained in one or both of those Lore skills, you also become 
trained in a Lore skill of your choice.
When you roll initiative, you can attempt a Devil Lore, 
Hellknight Lore, or Society check to Recall Knowledge 
about one enemy you can see as a free action, if that skill 
would be applicable. The GM is the final arbiter of whether 
or not one of those skills would be appropriate to Recall 
Knowledge about the enemy.
DEVIL YOU KNOW	
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites Hellbreaker Dedication, expert in Devil Lore 
or Hellknight Lore
Your knowledge of your enemies gives you an advantage 
against them, granting you a swift reaction to their 
devilry. If you know you’re fighting against any devils or 
Hellknights at the beginning of an encounter, you can roll 
the respective Lore skill for your initiative roll. 
In 
addition, 
whenever 
you 
successfully 
Recall 
Knowledge about a creature using Devil Lore or Hellknight 
Lore, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your next skill 
check against that creature before the end of your next 
turn. If you’re a master in Devil Lore or Hellknight Lore, the 
bonus increases to +2.
HELLBREAKER’S RESOLVE [one-action]	
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Hellbreaker Dedication
Frequency once per hour
You gird yourself in both mind and body for danger, 
steeling your resolve. You gain a number of temporary 
Hit Points equal to your level that last for 1 minute. While 
you have those temporary Hit Points, you gain a +1 status 
bonus to Will saves.
HIGH ALERT [one-action]	
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Hellbreaker Dedication
You’re constantly on guard, keeping watch over your allies 
against fiendish forces—no one can get the jump on your 
group while you’re around. Choose an ally you can see 
within 30 feet. They gain a +1 circumstance bonus to their 
AC and Reflex saving throws against devils and creatures 
allied with the Chelaxian government (as determined by 
the GM) until the beginning of your next turn. This action 
gains the visual trait, the auditory trait, or both, depending 
on how you alert your ally.
216

===== Page 218 =====
OPPORTUNE TRICKSTER [reaction]	
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
MENTAL
Prerequisites Hellbreaker Dedication, trained in Deception
Trigger An adjacent ally makes a melee Strike against a 
creature.
Requirements You’re adjacent to both your ally and the 
creature.
You aren’t above using underhanded tactics to gain an 
advantage, easily routing your opponents when they 
attack. Attempt a Deception check against the Perception 
DC of the creature that’s the target of the triggering attack. 
Regardless of the result, the target is temporarily immune 
to your attempts to use Opportune Trickster for the next 
10 minutes.
Critical Success The target is off-guard (including against 
the triggering attack) until the end of your ally’s turn.
Success The target is off-guard against the triggering 
attack.
Critical Failure You lose your balance in your attempt to 
assist your ally and fall prone. 
Special If you have the Dirty Trick skill feat (Player Core 
2 229), you can attempt a Thievery check instead of a 
Deception check; if you do, this action loses the mental 
trait.
HELL’S BANE	
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Devil You Know
Your in-depth knowledge of your foes grants you insight 
into their weaknesses, granting you an advantage when 
fighting against them. When you critically succeed at a 
skill check to Recall Knowledge about a devil or Hellknight, 
you gain a +4 status bonus to damage against that creature 
for 1 minute.
REND ARMOR [one-action]	
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
MANIPULATE
Prerequisites Hellbreaker Dedication
Requirements Your last action was a critical Strike that 
dealt bludgeoning or piercing damage.
Your enemies’ defenses are no match for you as you 
wrench your weapon to compromise their armor. The 
creature takes a –2 circumstance penalty to their AC that 
lasts until they can take 10 minutes to repair their armor. 
The creature can also Interact to adjust their armor, which 
removes this penalty for 1 minute.
BATTLE SCARS	
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Hellbreaker Dedication
You’ve faced enough opponents that your experience is 
written across your skin, toughening you against your 
fiendish foes. You gain resistance to bludgeoning and 
slashing damage from devils and creatures allied with the 
Chelaxian government (as determined by the GM) equal to 
half your level.
DEFY HELL [one-action]	
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
DIVINE
STANCE
Prerequisites Hellbreaker Dedication
Requirements You aren’t unholy.
Your devotion to your cause gives you endless strength 
and courage to withstand the enemy’s attacks. As long as 
you’re in this stance, you gain a +2 status bonus to saves 
against mental effects and can make Hellbreaker Strikes.
Hellbreaker Strike [two-actions] (holy) Make a weapon or unarmed 
Strike. This counts as two attacks when determining 
your multiple attack penalty. If your Strike hits, you 
deal an additional 2d8 spirit damage. At 18th level, this 
increases to 3d8 spirit damage. 
RETURN TO THE PIT!	
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Hellbreaker Dedication
You can send the fiends who have vexed you back to their 
home plane where they belong. You can cast banishment 
once per day as a divine innate spell. When you take 
this feat, you craft a personal symbol of the Hellbreakers 
League that’s anathema to devils. If you wield this symbol 
in one hand when you spend an extra action while casting 
banishment on a devil, you don’t need to pay the extra cost 
to give that creature a –2 circumstance penalty to its save.
THORN IN HELL’S SIDE	
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Defy Hell
Your devotion to the ideals of justice, freedom, and 
revolution allow you to truly punish those who stand in 
your way. When you critically succeed at a Hellbreaker 
Strike, the target must succeed at a Fortitude save against 
your class DC or spell DC, whichever is higher, or become 
stunned 1 (stunned 2 on a critical failure). This effect has 
the incapacitation trait.
HELLBREAKERS’ REGIMEN
Hellbreakers work around the clock, as they 
know their opposition won’t be taking a moment 
off either. Training is vigorous and frequent, 
constantly testing Hellbreakers’ abilities and 
almost always bringing them to the brink of 
exhaustion. That being said, discipline in a 
Hellbreaker station is certainly less painful than in 
their Chelaxian counterpart’s. 
217
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 219 =====
HELLBREAKER TROOPS 
AS ENEMIES
While the four troops presented 
here are meant to ally with the PCs 
during this Adventure Path, a GM 
can find use for them outside of this 
campaign as enemy combatants. A 
goblin village could field a choir of 
war chanters to protect itself or to 
bolster a raiding party, represented 
by the war saboteurs. 
Hellbreaker Troops
The Hellbreakers League stared with just a few recruits scattered across Isger, 
performing small acts of rebellion against Cheliax and demonstrations of 
support for everyday Isgeri. During this Adventure Path, the organization 
grows to become the center of the revolution, gathering allies from every 
corner of the country. When the time comes to fully go to war, the Hellbreakers 
can hopefully count on many Isgeri citizens to rise up and give their all for 
the cause. The following troops are just four of the many allies that the PCs 
can recruit for their skirmish encounters against Hellknights and worse.
STUMPFIELD WAR CHANTER CHOIR
The goblin artists of Stumpfield love a good song, as most goblins do. 
While they aren’t primarily warriors, these goblins have taken up their 
dogslicers to fight for the liberation of Isger. Their main advantage as a 
troop asset in skirmish encounters, though, is their ability to bolster their 
allies and flummox their enemies with their chants.
STUMPFIELD WAR CHANTER CHOIR
CREATURE 7
GARGANTUAN
GOBLIN
HUMANOID
TROOP
Perception +14; darkvision
Languages Common, Goblin
Skills Acrobatics +13, Deception +17, Occultism +15, Performance +17, 
Stealth +13
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +2, Wis +1, Cha +6
AC 24; Fort +12, Ref +16, Will +14
HP 120 (4 segments); Thresholds 80 (3 segments), 40 (2 
segments); Weaknesses area damage 10, splash damage 10
In Our Wake, Hell Will Break! (auditory, aura, emotion, mental) 
30 feet. The war chanters constantly sing and cheer to spur their 
Hellbreaker allies. Each allied creature in the aura gains a +1 circumstance 
bonus to saving throws against mental effects.
Troop Defenses (Pathfinder NPC Core 231)
Speed 25 feet; troop movement (Pathfinder NPC Core 231)
Occult Spontaneous Spells DC 25, attack +17; 4th (2 slots) confusion, 
whispers of the void (Pathfinder Player Core 2 255); 3rd (3 slots) haste, 
shatter, slow; 2nd (3 slots) dispel magic, laughing fit, shatter; 1st 
(3 slots) bless, signal skyrocket (Pathfinder Rage of Elements 121), 
soothe; Cantrips (4th) eat fire (Pathfinder Rage of Elements 119), 
figment, message, telekinetic hand, telekinetic projectile
Goblins Slice and Goblins Dice! [one-action] to [three-actions] Frequency once per round; 
Effect The war chanters swing their dogslicers, attacking each enemy in a 
5-foot emanation, with a DC 22 basic Reflex save. The damage dealt depends 
on the number of actions.
[one-action] 1d6+2 slashing damage
[two-actions] 2d6+8 slashing damage
[three-actions] 3d6+11 slashing damage
Hark! The Goblin Chanters Sing! [two-actions] (auditory, concentrate, mental) The war 
chanters break out into a familiar song with unfamiliar rhyme. A number 
of enemies equal to the troop’s current number of segments within 30 
feet must attempt a DC 25 Will save. Regardless of the outcome, a target 
becomes temporarily immune to this ability for 1 minute. On a failure, the 
target is stupefied 1 for 1 round as they get distracted by the war chanters’ 
rhymes (stupefied 2 on a critical failure).
218

===== Page 220 =====
STUMPFIELD WAR SABOTEURS
Stumpfield’s artists enjoy the chaos of creation, which makes them well 
suited for the parallel chaos of destruction. Isn’t sabotage just another 
form of art? Stumpfield certainly thinks so, and its denizens are happy to 
use their creative skills to waylay enemies and ambush parties.
STUMPFIELD WAR SABOTEURS
CREATURE 6
GARGANTUAN
GOBLIN
HUMANOID
TROOP
Perception +13
Languages Common, Goblin
Skills Acrobatics +14, Athletics +12, Crafting +12, Deception +8, Stealth +14, 
Thievery +14
Str +4, Dex +4, Con +3, Int +2, Wis +1, Cha +0
AC 23; Fort +14, Ref +15, Will +12
HP 99; Thresholds 66 (12 squares), 33 (8 squares); Weaknesses area damage 5, 
splash damage 5
Troop Defenses (Pathfinder NPC Core 231)
Duck, Duck, Loose! [reaction] Trigger The saboteurs are targeted by a Strike or an effect 
that requires a Reflex save; Effect The saboteurs scramble for the nearest 
cover. They become slowed 1 but gain standard cover until the beginning of 
their next turn.
Speed 25 feet; troop movement (Pathfinder NPC Core 231)
Rush and Steal [two-actions] Quickly moving in with grasping hands, the Stumpfield war 
saboteurs take what they can. The saboteurs Stride up to twice their Speed. 
During this movement, the saboteurs Interact to pick up an unattended object 
no larger than 2 Bulk or attempt to Steal an item from a creature they’re 
adjacent to; the goblins can pick 
up or Steal as many objects as 
they have remaining segments in 
any combination.
Slapstick Traps [two-actions] Frequency once per 
minute; Requirements The saboteurs’ last 
action was to successfully Hide; Effect The saboteurs 
laid down falling obstacles as they move unseen. The 
saboteurs Sneak twice. Until the beginning of the 
saboteurs’ next turn, any non-ally creature that 
moves into a square that the saboteurs snuck 
through takes 5d8 bludgeoning damage (DC 
24 basic Reflex save). On a critical failure, 
the creature also falls prone. Once this 
trap has been triggered, the rest of the 
squares the saboteurs snuck through 
become difficult terrain until a creature 
spends 1 hour clearing it.
Slice and Dice! [one-action] to [three-actions] Frequency once 
per round; Effect The saboteurs engage in 
a coordinated melee attack against each 
enemy in a 5-foot emanation, with a DC 21 
basic Reflex save. The damage dealt depends on the 
number of actions.
[one-action] 1d8 slashing damage
[two-actions] 2d8+5 slashing damage
[three-actions] 2d8+9 slashing damage
219
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 221 =====
HELLBREAKER TROOPS 
AS ENEMIES
The Swiftrun clergy could easily 
represent a hostile group that only 
cares about its own community. 
The gnome beastspeakers could 
represent a circle of druids more 
interested in punishing civilization 
than protecting nature. 
SWIFTRUN CLERGY
Swiftrun is a small settlement dedicated to Erastil, barely large enough to 
be considered a village. Its priests are devoted to community and peace, 
nature and nurture. And yet, sometimes the time comes when one must 
take up arms to protect their community, when words and gentleness 
aren’t enough.
The Erastilian clergy is known more for their farming techniques than 
their magic, but their rural ways shouldn’t fool anyone into thinking they 
can’t defend themselves. Each priest is equipped with the divine power 
of Old Deadeye as well as sharpshooting skills conducive to Erastil’s 
favored weapon, the longbow. These priests are prepared to defend their 
homes with their skills when they must, though they are never eager to 
shed blood and would rather spend their days tending their crops and 
community.
SWIFTRUN CLERGY
CREATURE 6
GARGANTUAN
HOLY
HUMAN
HUMANOID
TROOP
Perception +16
Languages Common
Skills Diplomacy +12, Medicine +14, Religion +13, Society +11, 
Survival +12
Str +2, Dex +2, Con +3, Int +1, Wis +4, Cha +2
AC 24; Fort +12, Ref +14, Will +16
HP 96; Thresholds 64 (12 squares), 32 (8 squares); 
Weaknesses area damage 5, splash damage 5
Troop Defenses (Pathfinder NPC Core 231)
Speed 25 feet; troop movement (Pathfinder NPC Core 231)
Divine Prepared Spells DC 24, attack +16; 3rd heal, holy 
light, wall of thorns; 2nd cleanse affliction (×2), clear mind; 
1st infuse vitality, protection, sure strike; Cantrips (3rd) 
light, shield, vitality lash
Longbow Volley [two-actions] The Swiftrun clergy draw their 
longbows, then launch a ranged attack in the form of a 
volley. This volley is a 10-foot burst within 60 feet that 
deals 3d6 piercing damage with a DC 21 basic Reflex save. 
When the regiment is reduced to 2 segments, this area 
decreases to a 5-foot burst.
Swift Daggers [one-action] to [three-actions] Frequency once per round; Effect 
Swiftrun’s clergy swiftly strike with their daggers against each 
enemy in a 5-foot emanation, with a DC 21 basic Reflex save. The 
damage dealt depends on the number of actions.
[one-action] 1d4+1 piercing damage
[two-actions] 2d4+7 piercing damage
[three-actions] 2d4+10 piercing damage
Troop Spellcasting When the Swiftrun clergy Casts a Spell, their 
constituent members combine their efforts into casting a more 
powerful version of the spell than any one member could achieve 
alone. When Casting a Spell that has an area of a burst, cone, or line 
and doesn’t have a duration, increase the area of that spell. Add 5 
feet to the radius of a burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 
feet (a burst with a smaller radius is not affected). Add 5 feet to the 
length of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller, and 
add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
220

===== Page 222 =====
UMOK BEASTSPEAKER CIRCLE
The gnomes of Umok have a reticence to fire after the pyrrhic wildfire 
that razed the Chitterwood during the Goblinblood Wars. To help protect 
their home from unwanted arson, many gnomes of Umok have learned to 
communicate with animals, whose instincts can quickly sniff out unauthorized 
smoke or flame. The two groups work together to keep the town safe, with 
the animals serving as an early-warning system when threats approach.
Several Umok beastspeakers have joined the war effort, harnessing their 
primal magic and their connection with animals against the armies of 
Cheliax. Their powerful magics are used to summon beasts of the wild 
to defend Isger from forces that threaten the peace of their home, pitting 
primal power against fiends.
UMOK BEASTSPEAKER CIRCLE
CREATURE 7
GARGANTUAN
GNOME
HUMANOID
TROOP
Perception +16; low-light vision
Languages Common, Gnomish
Skills Diplomacy +15, Medicine +17, Nature +17, Stealth +15, Survival +17
Str +1, Dex +2, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +6, Cha +2
Animal Empathy The beastspeaker circle can ask questions of, receive answers 
from, and use the Diplomacy skill with animals.
AC 24; Fort +15, Ref +12, Will +18
HP 120 (4 segments); Thresholds 80 (3 segments), 40 (2 segments); Weaknesses 
area damage 10, splash damage 10
Troop Defenses (Pathfinder NPC Core 231)
Speed 25 feet; troop movement (Pathfinder NPC Core 231)
Primal Prepared Spells DC 25; 4th hydraulic torrent, weapon storm; 3rd mad 
monkeys, wall of wind; 2nd animal messenger, pummeling rubble, speak with 
animals; 1st gust of wind, pummeling rubble, thunderstrike; Cantrips (4th) 
light, gouging claw, vitality lash
Muster Animals [two-actions] (primal) The beastspeakers summon a group of wild animals 
to attack all creatures in a 10-foot burst within 60 feet. The animals deal 3d8 
slashing damage (DC 22 basic Reflex save). When the beastspeaker circle is 
reduced to 2 segments, this area decreases to a 5-foot burst.
Staff Assault [one-action] to [three-actions] Frequency once per round; Effect The beastspeakers 
grip their staves with two hands and attack all enemies in a 5-foot 
emanation, with a DC 22 basic Reflex save. The amount of damage 
depends on the number of actions used.
[one-action] 1d8+1 bludgeoning damage
[two-actions] 2d8+6 bludgeoning damage
[three-actions] 2d8+10 bludgeoning damage
Troop Spellcasting When the beastspeaker 
circle Casts a Spell, the individual members 
combine their efforts into casting a more 
powerful version than any one member could 
achieve alone. When Casting a Spell that has an 
area of a burst, cone, or line and doesn’t have a duration, 
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the radius 
of a burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet 
(a burst with a smaller radius is not affected). Add 5 
feet to the length of a cone or line that is normally 15 
feet long or smaller, and add 10 feet to the length of 
a larger cone or line.
221
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 223 =====
WANNABE DEVILS
The process by which the adiutors 
are created is supposedly one 
engineered by the iconoclastic 
archfiend Barbatos, who’s rumored 
to not be of true devilish heritage. 
While none would dare do so in front 
of the Bearded Lord, true devils take 
a joy in lording over the adiutors, 
who are neither of Hell’s elect nor 
its elite, and in sending them on 
dangerous tasks to earn some 
unwinnable respect.
Adiutor
Adiutors, while nicknamed auxiliary devils, are not truly devils, but 
mortals invested with infernal power. These mortals gain a taste of Hell’s 
might as rewards for their loyalty to the cause of tyranny and oppression. 
Hungry for power, an adiutor ruthlessly enforces Hell’s will at any cost in 
hopes of fulfilling their fiendish ambitions. They’re most commonly found 
in Cheliax and its territories due to the nation’s relationship with the forces 
of Hell, serving as spies and informants for both the Thrunes and powerful 
devils invested in meddling with mortals.
While some adiutors climb the ranks of mortal society to become 
Hellknights and other supporters of tyranny, most have higher ambitions 
and desire to become devils themselves. To this end, they seek to serve more 
powerful devils and make deals that will benefit them so that they can 
ensure their transformation. There’s nothing an adiutor despises more than 
their own mortality—a sign of weakness, when beings like devils walk the 
Universe in their perfect Hellish vision.
Although they’re most likely to be found in places or near people with 
existing links to Hell, adiutors can be found anywhere, quietly plotting 
to gain power and status so they can become the lieutenants of Hell they 
desire to be.
ADIUTOR
CREATURE 5
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
DEVIL
FIEND
HUMAN
HUMANOID
UNHOLY
Perception +13; greater darkvision
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Athletics +12, Intimidation +14 (+16 when Coercing), Society +12, Stealth +15, 
Survival +12 (+14 when Tracking)
Str +2, Dex +5, Con +2, Int +1, Wis +2, Cha +4
Items bayonet (attached to flintlock musket; Pathfinder Guns & Gears 152), 
flintlock musket (Pathfinder Guns & Gears 153), uniform (explorer’s clothing)
AC 21; Fort +12, Ref +14, Will +10
HP 72; Weaknesses holy 4; Resistances fire 8
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] bayonet +14 (agile, finesse), Damage 1d4+5 piercing
Ranged [one-action] flintlock musket +14 (concussive, fatal d10, magical, range increment 
70 feet, reload 1, unholy), Damage 1d6+3 piercing plus 2d6 fire
Divine Innate Spells DC 22, attack +14; 3rd alarm, crisis of faith; 2nd dispel 
magic (×2), revealing light; 1st bane (×3); Cantrips (3rd) message, shield
Avernian Armskote An adiutor reloads by magically conjuring hellfire rounds 
crafted in the Fools’ Citadels of Avernus. Their Strikes with their flintlock 
muskets are magical and deal an additional 2d6 fire damage. 
Fiendish Reload When the adiutor reloads their musket, they can cast shield 
as part of the same action.
Punish the Wayward [two-actions] (concentrate, divine, emotion, fear, flourish, mental) 
The adiutor makes a melee or ranged Strike. If this Strike succeeds, the 
targeted creature takes the normal damage and must additionally attempt a 
DC 22 Will save.
Critical Success The creature suffers no additional effects.
Success The creature is frightened 1.
Failure The creature is frightened 1. While it can see the adiutor, it can’t reduce 
its frightened condition.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature is also off-guard to the adiutor 
while frightened.
222

===== Page 224 =====
MODE OF TRANSPORT
The aurocan’s chest hull is large 
enough to carry up to five Medium 
or smaller creatures. The creatures 
benefit from total cover and can 
leave the aurocan with an Interact 
action to open a hatch and slide 
out. Some aurocans are designed 
specifically as protective tanks for 
ranged soldiers like snipers and 
spellcasters, with slots built into 
their sides for weapons and spells to 
shoot out of.
Aurocan
One can predict what foes are on the battlefield by how they sound. Foot 
soldiers clang weapons on shields as they march. Cavalry is marked by 
a rapid drumbeat of hooves. Armies with great monsters under their 
command don’t try to silence their hair-raising screeches.
No sound prompts as much caution as the steady clicking of gears and 
hiss of billowing steam, for the only thing that accompanies that chorus 
is an aurocan: a mechanical creature created in the shape of a massive 
six-legged bull prone to exploding when destroyed. The aurocan’s greatest 
strength is how its head can detach from its body to rain down scalding 
steam from above.
AUROCAN
CREATURE 8
UNCOMMON
HUGE
CLOCKWORK
CONSTRUCT
MINDLESS
Perception +16; darkvision
Skills Athletics +18
Str +6, Dex +3, Con +4, Int –5, Wis +1, Cha –4
Wind-Up 24 hours, DC 24, standby (Pathfinder Guns & Gears 93)
AC 25; Fort +19, Ref +15, Will +13
HP 135; Immunities bleed, death effects, disease, doomed, drained, fatigued, 
fire, healing, mental, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed, poison, sickened, 
spirit, unconscious, vitality, void; Weaknesses electricity 10, orichalcum 
10; Resistances physical 5 (except adamantine or orichalcum) 
Explosive End [reaction] (fire) Trigger The aurocan drops to 0 HP; Effect The aurocan 
detonates. Every creature in a 30-foot emanation takes 3d12 bludgeoning 
damage and 3d8 fire damage (DC 23 basic Reflex save). On a critical failure, a 
creature is also knocked prone.
Speed 40 feet
Melee [one-action] hoof +18 (forceful, magical), Damage 2d8+10 bludgeoning
Melee [one-action] horn +18 (magical), Damage 2d10+10 piercing
Blistering Touch [one-action] (fire) The aurocan funnels some of the steam powering it 
into its body, heating up its metal frame. For the next minute, its melee 
Strikes deal an additional 1d6 fire damage. 
Head of Steam [two-actions] (fire, magical) Requirements The aurocan has 
used Blistering Touch within the past 2 rounds, and its 
head is attached; Effect The aurocan expels a cloud 
of steam as its head detaches. The head occupies 
a 5-foot square and has a fly Speed of 15 feet. As 
part of this action, and every time the aurocan 
Sustains it on a subsequent round, the head 
can Fly up to its Speed, blasting steam directly 
downward as it moves. Each creature whose 
space it passes no more than 5 feet above during 
its flight takes 4d6 fire damage (DC 26 basic Reflex 
save). On a failed save, a creature is also dazzled by the 
steam for 1 round (or blinded on a critical failure). 
While its head is detached, the aurocan can’t make horn 
Strikes, but it can perform all other actions normally. The head 
has an AC of 27, Hardness 10, and the same saving throws, immunities, 
weaknesses, and resistances as the aurocan. If the head takes 20 damage in 
a single attack, it falls to the ground broken, and the aurocan is off-guard for 1 
round. If the head reenters the aurocan’s space, it reattaches.
Trample [three-actions] Large or smaller, hoof, DC 26 (Monster Core 360)
223
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 225 =====
SPIDERY INCLINATIONS
The insidiator often takes after 
specific spiders, even bearing 
webbed markings on their face, 
which shows in their tactics. Those 
inspired by jumping spiders are 
quick to hunt down their prey, 
attacking relentlessly with every 
tool they have, while those closer 
to the patient trapdoor spiders 
integrate deeply into the society 
they infiltrate.
Devil, Insidiator (Entrapment Devil)
These devils from the first layer of Hell serve their betters by ensnaring those 
who are easily tempted and weaving plots that lead to the fall of mortal 
souls. Insidiators are commonly recruited to set up sting operations that 
entice mortals into committing terrible sins or lay bare the machinations 
of fiendish rivals. They delight in seeing their victims fall prey to their well-
crafted schemes and might spend years on the perfect plan, though the 
most efficient are more likely to rise through Hell’s ranks.
An insidiator’s talent for subtlety extends to their physical form. Their 
bat-like wings appear gossamer but, like the spider webs they resemble, 
are excellent for catching prey, sticking to enemies and trapping them 
in melee. When the mood strikes or circumstances warrant, entrapment 
devils can alter the color of their skin and wings to avoid detection.
Insidiators generally seek to avoid physical combat, preferring to toy 
with their targets in games of subterfuge and mental manipulation. Their 
specialty is leading a target down a convoluted path that ends with the target 
incriminating or damning themselves, forcing them to agree to the insidiator’s 
demands. Should a would-be victim see through the insidiator’s 
schemes, the devil concedes temporary defeat and 
leaves to begin plotting anew. When all else fails 
and physical tactics become necessary, entrapment 
devils are capable fighters who use their spiderlike webs and 
camouflage abilities to their advantage, employing sneak 
tactics to throw their opponents off-guard.
INSIDIATOR
CREATURE 1
MEDIUM
DEVIL
FIEND
UNHOLY
Perception +10; greater darkvision
Languages Common, Diabolic; telepathy 100 feet (Pathfinder 
Monster Core 360)
Skills Deception +7, Legal Lore +6, Religion +6, Society +6, Stealth +6
Str +1, Dex +2, Con +1, Int +3, Wis +1, Cha +4
AC 15; Fort +4, Ref +7, Will +9; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 20; Immunities fire; Weaknesses holy 3; Resistances physical 3 (except 
silver), poison 3
Speed 25 feet, fly 20 feet
Melee [one-action] claw +7 (agile, magical, unholy), Damage 1d4+3 slashing
Melee [one-action] wing +7 (agile, magical, unholy), Damage 1d6+3 bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] web +9 (range increment 30 feet), Effect web trap
Divine Innate Spells DC 17; 1st bane (at will), ventriloquism; Cantrips (1st) daze
Chameleon Skin [one-action] (concentrate, divine, illusion) The insidiator changes the 
coloration of their skin to match their surrounding environment. Doing so 
allows them to Hide even if they don’t have cover. When the insidiator moves 
to a different environment, they must use this action again or lose its effects.
Change Shape [one-action] (concentrate, divine, polymorph) The insidiator can take on 
the appearance of any Medium humanoid (Pathfinder Monster Core 358). This 
doesn’t change their Speed or their attack and damage bonuses with their Strikes 
but might change the damage type their Strikes deal (typically to bludgeoning).
Hidden Movement If the insidiator starts their turn undetected or hidden to 
a creature, that creature is off-guard against the insidiator’s attacks until the 
end of the turn.
Web Trap A creature hit by the insidiator’s web Strike is immobilized and 
stuck to the nearest surface until it Escapes (DC 17).
224

===== Page 226 =====
ANTI-INTELLECTUALISTS
Instillos know the importance 
of diverse thinking and media 
literacy, which leads them to target 
educational institutions and free 
thinkers. They seed organizations 
with false information and selfish 
intellectuals who use their 
knowledge for themselves instead of 
others, plying them with power and 
information before exposing their 
corruption so society turns against 
them.
Devil, Instillo (Docent Devil)
Wherever learning and instruction is called for within the burning shadows 
of Hell, from the bureaus of Dis and coffers of Erebus to the war colleges 
of Malebolge and Caina’s courtrooms, docent devils ply their unassuming 
and perspicacious trade. The instillo, so named for their creativity and 
talent in instilling a respect for Hell’s ways and legitimacy to captive 
audiences, are valued for their ability to transform recently conquered 
lands into compliant, even loyal, client-states. The conquered are taught 
to be ashamed of their origins; the despairing are issued philosophies 
that displace blame and uncertainty upon the mistakes of history and 
geography; the orphaned are taught to respect those who orphaned them. 
INSTILLO
CREATURE 8
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
DEVIL
FIEND
UNHOLY
Perception +16; greater darkvision
Languages Common, Diabolic, Empyrean, Utopian; telepathy 100 feet (Pathfinder 
Monster Core 360), truespeech
Skills Arcana +16, Deception +18, Diplomacy +18, Occultism +16, Performance +18, 
Religion +18, Society +18
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +2, Int +4, Wis +3, Cha +6
Items fine clothing, +1 striking light mace, writing set
AC 26; Fort +14, Ref +15, Will +18; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 135; Immunities fire; Weaknesses holy 8; Resistances physical 8 (except 
silver)
Correcting Veil (aura, linguistic, mental, subtle) 100 feet. The instillo’s telepathic 
presence constantly monitors perspectives and molds thought toward an 
infernal clarity. Creatures within the aura gain the Dubious Knowledge skill 
feat but are unaware of this effect. The instillo is instantly aware when any 
creature within the aura fails a Recall Knowledge check and influences the 
erroneous information that the creature gains.
Nod of the Tongue Creatures who can understand Diabolic take a –2 status 
penalty to their Will saves against the instillo’s effects with the auditory or 
mental trait.
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] light mace +18 (agile, finesse, shove, unholy), Damage 2d4+6 bludgeoning 
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 26, attack +18; 4th containment (Pathfinder Player 
Core 2 243), suggestion, translocate; 3rd enthrall (×2), paralyze; 2nd deafness, 
laughing fit, stupefy; 1st charm, command, fleet step; Cantrips (4th) bullhorn 
(Pathfinder Player Core 2 241), daze, live wire (Pathfinder Player Core 2 248), 
message, telekinetic hand
Divine Innate Spells DC 23, attack +15; 4th dispelling globe, dull ambition 
(Pathfinder Player Core 2 244); 2nd status (at will)
Rituals DC 26; diabolic pact (Pathfinder Monster Core 364)
Quiet Confidence [one-action] (concentrate, spellshape) The instillo can hide the source 
of their magic. If the next action the instillo uses is to Cast a Spell, that spell 
gains the subtle trait. The trait hides only the spell’s spellcasting actions 
and manifestations, not its effects.
Sneak Attack The instillo’s Strikes deal an additional 2d6 precision damage 
to off-guard creatures.
Superlative Rhetoric [one-action] (arcane) Frequency once per round; 
Requirements The instillo’s most recent action was to cast 
a spell with the auditory trait; Effect The instillo 
immediately casts daze at a creature that can hear them.
225
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 227 =====
MINIONS AND VASSALS
Powerful kylixes use their goblets 
not just as accessories but weapons, 
animating them to pour acid onto 
rivals and batter opponents from 
afar. Though all cupbearer devils are 
charming, only the strongest can 
fully use their seductive charisma 
to capture victims’ minds and send 
them off to do the devil’s bidding, 
all while their bewitched “friends” 
believe they’re acting of their own 
accord.
Devil, Kylix (Cupbearer Devil)
The elegant and mortal-appearing kylixes, or cupbearer devils, rarely 
hide their infernal nature, preferring to dress tastefully and immaculately 
to accentuate the beauty and symmetry of their forms. Theirs is the 
dance of idle speech and clever chatter, half-promises of friendship amid 
smiling hints of dalliance. They make friends swiftly wherever they go, 
and their presence alone seems to prevent insurrection and conflict. The 
cupbearers are the face of occupation; with their devilish charms, they 
can rob a rebellion of its revolutionaries, waylay spouses from their 
partners, steal children from cradles, and get thanked for it all. 
The cupbearers shape art and culture, wielding their talents in hospitality 
and merrymaking to seduce their guests and entourages toward the 
glamour of evil. Hell is, after all, a bastion of civilization; the cupbearers, 
with their twinkling vessels and carelessly sincere flattery, remind that Hell 
is the best place to be, and you have nothing to fear from its laws.
KYLIX (CUPBEARER DEVIL)
CREATURE 4
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
DEVIL
FIEND
UNHOLY
Perception +11; greater darkvision
Languages Common, Diabolic, plus three regional languages; telepathy 100 feet 
(Pathfinder Monster Core 360)
Skills Alcohol Lore +12, Deception +12, Diplomacy +12, Performance +12, Politics 
Lore +12, Religion +10, Society +12
Str +1, Dex +2, Con +2, Int +5, Wis +2, Cha +3
Items fine clothing, gold goblet (worth 10 gp)
False Friend The kylix’s non-damaging spells gain the subtle trait.
Raise a Glass When a kylix is holding a drink and not wielding weapons or 
wearing armor, they’re continually protected by a sanctuary spell (DC 21). If 
the kylix breaks the sanctuary spell, the effect returns if the devil doesn’t 
take any hostile actions for 10 minutes. Additionally, while protected by a 
sanctuary spell, the kylix can roll Diplomacy for initiative.
AC 20; Fort +9; Ref +12; Will +10; +1 status on all saves vs. magic
HP 57; Immunities fire; Weaknesses holy 5; Resistances physical 5 (except silver)
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] fist +12 (agile, finesse, nonlethal, unarmed, unholy), Damage 2d6+2 
bludgeoning and 2 precision
Rituals DC 21; diabolic pact (Pathfinder Monster Core 364), inveigle (Pathfinder 
Player Core 2 268)
Divine Innate Spells DC 21, attack +13; 2nd invisibility, silence; 1st bane, charm 
(at will); Cantrips (2nd) bullhorn (Pathfinder Player Core 2 241), message, 
prestidigitation, shield
Courteous Causerie [one-action] (concentrate, magical) The kylix attempts a Deception, 
Diplomacy, Performance, or Society check, and compares their result 
against the Will DCs of up to four creatures within 60 feet. On a success, 
these creatures are fascinated for 1 round. The kylix can Sustain this effect, 
increasing the duration of this fascination by 1 round for up to 1 minute. When 
the fascination ends, the affected creatures are then temporarily immune to 
Courteous Causerie for 1 hour.
Hand in Glove The kylix can flank an enemy if it’s within reach of both an ally 
and themself; the kylix and their ally don’t have to be on opposite sides. This 
benefits the kylix’s allies as well, but only if they’re flanking with the kylix, not 
each other. Other requirements for flanking must still be met.
Sparkling Wit A creature fascinated by a kylix is off-guard to the kylix.
226

===== Page 228 =====
FANATICS OF HELL
Odvolos love to engage foes in 
debate, even if they’re ill-suited to 
the arts of logic and rhetoric; their 
passion is to engulf their opponents 
in fallacy and flame. In their eyes, 
anyone who dares to disagree with 
them or their archdevil idols is but 
a straw man, and they’ll do their 
damnedest to ensure the straw man 
burns.
Devil, Odvolos (Censorship Devil)
As empires posture amid decline and demagogues preside over republics, 
censorship devils scatter the burning ash of ignorance as a comforting 
veil over the complications of history and causality. These devils are 
feverishly devoted to Hell and find anything that could be interpreted 
against Hell’s doctrines to be anathema and deserving of immediate 
destruction. Inconvenient accounts of the past, truths that draw the 
faithful away from the ways of Asmodeus, words that bring hope to 
those who might otherwise fall into a devil’s temptations—these are fuel 
for the odvolos’s hateful torches, burning bright on the cinders of ink 
and vellum.
ODVOLOS
CREATURE 5
MEDIUM
DEVIL
FIEND
UNHOLY
Perception +12 (+14 to detect concealed objects); fevered consciousness, scent 
(imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Aklo, Common, Diabolic, Pyric; telepathy 30 feet (Pathfinder 
Monster Core 360)
Skills Athletics +12, Deception +13, Intimidation +13, Religion +12, 
Society +12 (+14 to Decipher Writing), Survival +12
Str +4, Dex +2, Con +3, Int +1, Wis +1, Cha +5
Items longspear
Fevered Consciousness An odvolos ignores concealment or penalties to 
Perception from ash, fire, and smoke.
AC 21; Fort +13, Ref +12, Will +11; +1 status to all saves vs. magic, –1 
status to all saves vs. emotion effects
HP 75; Immunities fire; Weaknesses holy 5; Resistances physical 5 
(except silver)
Shroud of Burning Pages (aura, fire) 15 feet. The odvolos is 
surrounded by an aura of burning paper and scorched parchment, 
which provides concealment as if it was smoke. A creature within 
the aura takes a –2 circumstance penalty to Perception checks, and a 
creature that ends its turn in the aura must succeed at a DC 22 Reflex save 
or any items with written information held or carried by the creature takes 
1d4 persistent fire damage. Magical items and religious texts are immune to 
this effect.
Purge Records [reaction] Trigger A creature the odvolos can see or hear within 15 feet 
Casts a Spell from a scroll or Activates a grimoire; Effect The odvolos Steps 
toward the creature and makes a longspear Strike. If the attack is a critical 
hit, the triggering action is disrupted.
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] longspear +14 (fire, magical, reach, unholy), Damage 1d8+7 
piercing plus 1d4 fire
Melee [one-action] torch +14 (fire, unholy), Damage 2d8+7 fire
Divine Innate Spells DC 19, attack +11; 3rd locate (at will, books, scrolls, ink, 
writing materials, and other written or inscribed materials only); Cantrips 
(3rd) ignition
Pyre’s Mercy [one-action] (concentrate, emotion, fear, fire, mental) The odvolos 
attempts to Demoralize a creature within 30 feet. If the odvolos succeeds, 
the creature also gains fire weakness 5 while frightened.
Torchbearer Piercing weapons wielded by an odvolos gain the magical trait and 
deal an additional 1d4 fire damage on a successful Strike and 1d8 persistent 
fire damage on a critical hit.
227
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 229 =====
MIND OVER MATTER
Velavis have long, birdlike legs, pallid 
skin, and piercing black eyes that 
unnerve many who look upon them. 
When angered, one glare is enough 
to intimidate troublemakers into 
compliance. Despite their imposing 
demeanor, velavis aren’t especially 
strong physically. When they need 
to move heavy tomes, they tend 
to do so with the aid of magic and 
conjured servants. These devils are 
accomplished spellcasters whose 
intellect, speech, and quills are their 
most powerful weapons.
Devil, Velavi (Librarian Devil)
Knowledge is power, and no one is more keenly aware of this truth than 
velavis. These scribes and junior scholars are tasked with maintaining the 
unfathomably vast collections in Stygia’s Academies of Lies. Velavis are 
the front faces of the library, greeting visitors and determining whether 
to grant their requests. Their organizational skills are among the best in 
Hell, and their memories are long, allowing them to easily navigate their 
home library with astonishing speed. Velavis provide another vital service 
for Hell: should another devil make a valuable discovery, they’re expected 
to report to an Academy to have a velavi record it on a scroll or book the 
velavi crafts out of living flesh.
Each velavi is intimately familiar with the collections in their library, 
and they have unfettered access to other Academies’ archives. Those 
seeking information in Hell might be tempted to seek a velavi’s aid, but the 
velavi will demand a high price before conceding any information—even 
then, the flow of knowledge almost always goes one way, as velavis are 
tricky with what they share. Librarian devils are custodians, gatekeepers, 
and guardians; it’s exceedingly rare for velavis to share their knowledge 
with anyone but a devil of higher rank, and even then, it must be bought 
or threatened out of them.
VELAVI
CREATURE 2
MEDIUM
DEVIL
FIEND
UNHOLY
Perception +11; greater darkvision
Languages Aklo, Chthonian, Common, Diabolic, Draconic, Empyrean, Jotun; 
telepathy 100 feet (Pathfinder Monster Core 360)
Skills Arcana +7, Crafting +7, Hell Lore +8, Intimidation +7, Library Lore +8, 
Occultism +8, Religion +8, Society +7
Str +0, Dex +2, Con +1, Int +4, Wis +3, Cha +2
Items scroll robes of phantasmal minion (Pathfinder 
Treasure Vault 11), writing set
AC 17; Fort +5, Ref +8, Will +10; +1 status to all saves vs. 
magic
HP 28; Immunities fire; Weaknesses holy 3; Resistances 
physical 3 (except silver), poison 3
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] claw +7 (agile, magical, unholy), Damage 1d6+3 slashing
Melee [one-action] quill +9 (agile, finesse, magical, unholy), Damage 1d4+3 slashing 
plus 1d4 persistent bleed
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 18, attack +10; 1st command, enfeeble, sleep; Cantrips 
(1st) daze, shield, tangle vine, telekinetic hand, telekinetic projectile
Divine Innate Spells DC 18; 1st lock
Rituals DC 18; diabolic pact (Pathfinder Monster Core 364)
Frightening Shush [two-actions] (emotion, fear, manipulate, mental, visual) The velavi 
makes an intimidating shushing motion. Creatures within 30 feet must 
attempt a DC 18 Will save. The velavi can’t use Frightening Shush again for 
1d4 rounds.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is frightened 1.
Failure The creature is frightened 2. While a creature is frightened by this 
ability, it’s off-guard to the velavi.
Critical Failure As failure, and the creature also can’t make any sounds while 
it’s frightened, as if under the effect of the silence spell.
228

===== Page 230 =====
FUMECRUX VARIANTS
As devastating as draconic 
fumecruxes are, they’re uncommon 
sights to behold. Common 
fumecruxes are made from horses, 
large birds, and other mundane 
beasts. All fumecruxes display an 
apathy toward living creatures, 
including their makers, making them 
difficult to control. A necromancer 
who unleashes a fumecrux made 
from something as untamable as a 
dragon is either incredibly powerful 
or incredibly foolish.
Fumecrux
By studying the phenomena of hellcrowns (page 232) and beheaded 
(Monster Core 2 56), Chelaxian mages have created a fusion of the two. 
Years of experimentation culminated in the creation of fumecruxes, 
brimstone specters capped with the decapitated and rotting heads of great 
beasts. The process is being attempted more frequently as yet another 
weapon for the war against Andoran.
DRACONIC FUMECRUX
This creature is the result of the fumecrux ritual performed on the head of a 
young adamantine dragon. Unlike most fumecruxes, draconic fumecruxes 
retain some of the unique magic of their living counterparts.
DRACONIC FUMECRUX
CREATURE 9
UNCOMMON
LARGE
UNDEAD
UNHOLY
Perception +18; darkvision
Languages Common, Diabolic (can’t speak any language)
Skills Athletics +20, Intimidation +18
Str –5, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +6
AC 27; Fort +21, Ref +15, Will +17
HP 140, void healing (Pathfinder Monster Core 360); Immunities bleed, death 
effects, disease, paralyzed, poison, unconscious
Frightful Presence (aura, emotion, fear, mental) 90 feet, DC 26
Speed 25 feet, fly 90 feet
Melee [one-action] jaws +21 (magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d12+9 piercing plus Grab 
(Pathfinder Monster Core 359)
Melee [one-action] claw +18 (agile, finesse, magical, void), Damage 4d8+4 void
Melee [one-action] tail +18 (agile, finesse, magical, reach 15 feet, void), Damage 4d6+4 void
Desiccated Boulder Breath [two-actions] (void) The draconic fumecrux belches forth a 
mass of stones that are partially solid and partially void energy. These 
stones deal 4d8 bludgeoning damage and 4d8 void damage in a 
30-foot cone (DC 25 basic Reflex save). It can’t use Desiccated 
Boulder Breath again for 1d4 rounds.
Hellfume Body A fumecrux’s body consists of hellish fumes 
infused with void energy. When a creature that’s 
holding its breath while it has been Swallowed Whole 
by a fumecrux attacks or casts a spell on a turn, the 
creature loses 3 rounds of air instead of 2.
Spit Up [two-actions] Requirements The draconic fumecrux 
has a creature Swallowed Whole; Effect The 
draconic fumecrux spits out the swallowed 
creature, flinging it through the air up to 40 feet 
away. The creature takes bludgeoning damage 
equal to the distance it traveled and lands 
prone. If it lands in the same space as another 
creature, the other creature is pushed 5 feet 
and takes 3d8+4 bludgeoning damage (DC 25 
basic Reflex save). The fumecrux can’t Spit 
Up more than one creature at a time no matter 
their size, and the most recently swallowed 
creature is Spit Up first.
Swallow Whole [one-action] Medium, 1d10+4 void and 1d10 
fire, Rupture 12
229
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 231 =====
SECRET SIGNALS
Gliding river snakes sometimes 
migrate between nests depending 
on weather conditions and the 
movement of prey, which has 
led some villages to use them 
as messengers. Once a snake is 
domesticated, it’s trained to locate 
specific nests based on scent, and 
messages are tied to its body. When 
the snake arrives, it’s rewarded with 
live prey.
Gliding River Snake
Wise travelers keep watch for snakes along their path, but few expect 
them to attack from above. When threatened, the gliding river snake takes 
to high ground and launches toward its target, gliding through the air by 
flattening its ribs and controlling its flight by moving sinuously. If unable 
to make an aerial attack, the gliding river snake simply attempts to bite 
its target and snap off a finger or two. The snake’s jaws are extremely 
powerful, able to bite clean through bone and flesh.
The mildly venomous gliding river snake prefers to keep to itself but 
reacts harshly to potential threats with a vicious bite. Its mouth is filled 
with serrated teeth that tear into its prey rather than piercing like a 
typical snake. Using these teeth, the gliding river snake rends its food into 
chunks before swallowing, allowing it to target larger prey. Sometimes 
an unfortunate animal is beset by multiple gliding river snakes, covering 
it with writhing serpents. These group meals have been mistaken for a 
singular monster before, as only the snakes’ tentacle-like bodies can be 
seen as they feast.
The gliding river snake often lives in pairs, staying together with its 
mate through the mating season before separating in the off season. They 
lay their eggs either in trees or underwater, sometimes even stealing bird 
nests for their own uses once they’ve devoured the birds’ eggs. Many a 
birdwatcher has been taken aback by the sight of hatching snakes up in 
the treetops, occasionally even laid side by side with bird eggs for easy 
access to a meal.
GLIDING RIVER SNAKE
CREATURE 0
SMALL
ANIMAL
Perception +6; low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet	
Skills Athletics +2 (+6 to Swim), Stealth +5, Survival +5
Str +0, Dex +3, Con +1, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha –2
Deep Breath The gliding river snake can hold its breath for about an hour.
AC 15; Fort +6, Ref +9, Will +3
HP 15
Speed 20 feet, climb 15 feet, swim 20 feet
Melee [one-action] jaws +6, Damage 1d6+2 piercing plus gliding river snake venom
Aerial Ambush [one-action] (move) Requirements The gliding river snake is higher than a 
creature; Effect The gliding river snake launches up to 20 feet down toward 
a creature and makes a jaws Strike against it. If the snake hits, it doesn’t take 
damage from the fall. If it misses, it takes only half the regular damage from 
the distance it fell.
Aquatic Ambush [one-action] Requirements The gliding river snake is in water and a 
creature that hasn’t detected it is within 20 feet; Effect The gliding river 
snake moves up to its swim Speed + 10 feet toward the triggering creature, 
traveling on water and on land. Once the creature is in reach, the 
snake makes a jaws Strike against it. The creature is off-guard 
against this Strike.
Gliding River Snake Venom (poison) Saving Throw DC 18 
Fortitude; Maximum Duration 4 rounds; Stage 1 1d8 poison damage 
(1 round)
Weaving Glide [one-action] (move) The snake glides toward the ground, 5 feet down and 
up to 20 feet forward through the air. As long as it spends at least 1 action 
gliding each round and hasn’t yet reached the ground, it remains in the air 
at the end of its turn.
230

===== Page 232 =====
CRUEL PRANKSTERS
Drudes are very sociable with 
other sadists and often team up 
with gremlins, sahkils, and other 
gorgas who wish to cause suffering. 
More than a few drudes have been 
discovered serving as pets and 
companions for serial killers and 
torturers who amuse the fey with 
their brutal activities.
Gorga, Drude
A drude is a gorga who embodies the fear of haunted places at night. 
This shadowy, shapeshifting fey is drawn to places of great tragedy, loss, 
or conflict, where they prey on their victim’s fear of their surroundings. 
A drude takes perverse pleasure in toying with their quarry, whom they 
terrorize and exhaust over the course of the night. Malicious but not truly 
malevolent, a drude typically stops short of causing death since that would 
put an end to their fun. When faced with a situation they can’t win, this fey 
is more likely to flee than fight. 
A drude’s true form resembles an emaciated, tailless fox made of 
darkness and ghostly shadows, though a drude rarely reveals this true self 
to others. When a drude has set their sights on a target, they prefer to shift 
into a form better suited to infiltrating the victim’s sleeping space, such as 
a stray dog, a nearby shrub, or an item nestled among the target’s gear.
If the drude can’t find a suitable location for their fun, they’ll make 
one. They find the most isolated area they can and put on a great show to 
bring out the fear of any residents. The unfortunate people in the drude’s 
chosen territory are stalked by strange figures, assailed by wailing sounds, 
and haunted by terrible nightmares—all tricks by the shapeshifting drude 
to create the perfect environment for themself. Very rarely, a drude might 
become attached to a particular victim and follow them to other locations, 
choosing to haunt them instead of a singular location.
DRUDE
CREATURE 2
UNCOMMON
SMALL
FEY
Perception +10; greater darkvision
Languages Common, Fey; telepathy 100 feet (Pathfinder Monster Core 360)
Skills Deception +8, Society +7, Stealth +8
Str +0, Dex +3, Con +0, Int +2, Wis +2, Cha +4
AC 18; Fort +5, Ref +11, Will +8
HP 25; Weaknesses cold iron 3
Lay Bare When a drude using Change Shape is reduced to fewer than half their 
Hit Points, they revert to their true form.
Nightmare Herald (aura) 90 feet. A creature that sleeps within the drude’s 
aura is tormented with horrific nightmares and must attempt a DC 18 
Will save. On a failure, it’s enfeebled 1 for 24 hours when it awakens. On 
a critical failure, it’s also fatigued.
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] jaws +8 (agile, finesse, magical), Damage 1d6+3 piercing
Innate Primal Spells DC 16; Constant (1st) vanishing tracks
Change Shape [one-action] (concentrate, polymorph, primal) The drude takes 
on the appearance of a Small animal or inanimate object (Pathfinder 
Monster Core 358). This doesn’t affect their statistics, but it could 
change the damage type of their Strikes while in animal form.
Haunting Echoes [two-actions] (concentrate, illusion, emotion, fear, mental, 
primal) The drude targets a creature they can see within 30 feet and 
assaults it with illusions of ghosts and nightly terrors. The creature 
must attempt a DC 18 Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected and temporarily immune for 
24 hours.
Success The creature takes 1d6 mental damage.
Failure The creature takes 1d6 mental damage and is frightened 1.
Critical Failure The creature takes 2d6 mental damage and is frightened 2.
231
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 233 =====
DIFFERENT ORDERS
Hellcrowns arise with different 
abilities depending on the order 
they were part of. Hellcrowns from 
the Order of the Rack use a large 
nail as their weapon, while those 
from the Order of the Chain use long 
spectral chains to bind and choke 
their quarry. No matter the Order, all 
Hellcrowns seek to destroy anything 
that isn’t one of them.
Hellcrown
Those well-versed in the art of fighting against Hellknights warn their 
comrades to avoid decapitating their foes. This is because a Hellknight’s 
unearthly loyalty can sometimes imbue their helmet with void energy, 
resulting in a restless spirit called a hellcrown. Hellcrowns float through 
the air, their ghostly bodies resembling smoky apparitions of the armor 
they once wore in life, and though they retain their twisted allegiance to 
their cause, little else remains of their former humanity and sense of self.
Hellcrowns don’t join their living counterparts in armies or regiments, 
preferring to haunt the bloody battle sites where they originally fell. The 
strength of a hellcrown varies depending on the might of the living soldier 
who fell and the power of their enmity toward the cause of their death. 
In some cases, particularly powerful hellcrowns have access to spells 
and even form ghostly swarms to seek vengeance against any they deem 
responsible for their deaths.
GODCLAW HELLCROWN
Hellcrowns are a known hazard when fighting any order of Hellknights, 
especially so when those knights hail from the Order of the Godclaw. 
These hellcrowns seem to have a much better grasp on the necromancy 
that weaves through their existence and have been reported to form 
spectral weapons from their ghostly bodies that they can whip at their foes 
at a moment’s notice. These are some of the most dangerous hellcrowns 
one can meet.
GODCLAW HELLCROWN
CREATURE 7
UNCOMMON
TINY
UNDEAD
UNHOLY
Perception +15; darkvision
Languages Common
Skills Intimidation +17, Stealth +15
Str –1, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +2
AC 24; Fort +12, Ref +18, Will +15
HP 115, void healing (Pathfinder Monster Core 360); Immunities 
bleed, death effects, disease, paralyzed, poison, unconscious
Speed fly 25 feet
Melee [one-action] spectral lash +17 (magical, reach 5 feet, void), Damage 
2d12+3 void plus agony lash
Divine Innate Spells DC 23, attack +15; 4th divine wrath; 3rd crisis 
of faith; 1st command (at will); Cantrips (4th) telekinetic projectile
Agony Lash (divine) A creature damaged by the godclaw hellcrown’s 
spectral lash Strike must attempt a DC 23 Fortitude save. On a failure, the tip 
of the lash is embedded in the creature, dealing 1d6 persistent bleed damage 
and imparting a –5-foot status penalty to the target’s Speeds for 1 minute. Each 
additional embedded tip increases the bleed damage by 1 and the penalty to 
Speed by 5 feet. A creature can remove a tip with an Interact action to reduce 
the amount of bleed damage and the penalty to Speed. Pulling out the last tip 
removes both conditions.
Forbidding Stare [one-action] (concentrate, emotion, fear, mental, visual) All creatures 
that can see the hellcrown and are affected by agony lash must attempt 
a DC 25 Will saving throw. A creature that fails is frightened 1, and on a 
critical failure, it becomes fleeing for as long as it’s frightened. Regardless 
of the result, the creature is then temporarily immune to Forbidding Stare 
for 10 minutes.
232

===== Page 234 =====
ORDER OF THE CRUX
The mercenary band known as the 
Order of the Crux consists of three 
graveknights slowly amassing an 
army after they were killed by the 
Order of the Scourge. Their greatest 
assets are skeletal Hellknights, 
who find acceptance 
among their undead 
ranks, though 
their true goals are 
unknown.
Skeletal Hellknight
The bodies of Hellknights occasionally rise to continue their fight. This is 
just one example of an undead soldier of Hell.
SKELETAL HELLKNIGHT BONESINGER
Some undead Hellknights can command the bones of both their own 
bodies and others, and they primarily use this ability to temporarily 
strengthen themselves and summon waves of reinforcements. While just 
as undead as their compatriots, these so-called bonesingers have enough 
intelligence to join their living counterparts, though they’re generally 
shunned and disavowed.
SKELETAL HELLKNIGHT BONESINGER
CREATURE 8
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
SKELETON
UNDEAD
UNHOLY
Perception +15; darkvision
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Athletics +18, Intimidation +16 
Str +6, Dex +1, Con +4, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +2
Items Hellknight plate (Pathfinder Treasure Vault 10), +1 striking warhammer
AC 26; Fort +18, Ref +13, Will +16
HP 130, void healing (Pathfinder Monster Core 360); Immunities bleed, death 
effects, diseased, paralyzed, poison, unconscious; Weaknesses holy 10, vitality 10; 
Resistances cold 10, electricity 10, fire 10, piercing 10, slashing 10
Reactive Strike [reaction]
Speed 25 feet, climb 15 feet
Melee warhammer +20 (magical, shove), Damage 2d8+9 bludgeoning
Melee claw +19 (agile, magical), Damage 2d6+9 slashing
Divine Innate Spells DC 26; 4th bind undead (skeleton only), rouse 
skeletons (Pathfinder Player Core 2 250), summon undead (skeleton 
only)
Call to Arms [one-action] (concentrate, manipulate, occult) The skeletal 
Hellknight bonesinger strikes its rib cage three times, creating a 
loud, ominous clatter. All mindless skeletons in a 30-foot emanation 
must use their reaction to Stride closer to the bonesinger.
For the Cause [three-actions] (concentrate, manipulate, occult, void) 
Frequency once per day; Requirements The skeletal Hellknight 
bonesinger has fewer than half their Hit Points remaining; Effect 
The bonesinger reaches out through the necromantic magic that 
animates the dead around them and pulls it into themself. The 
bonesinger chooses up to three mindless skeletons with the 
minion trait that they control within a 10-foot emanation and 
destroys them. The bonesinger regains 2d6 Hit Points for each 
skeleton destroyed.
Invoke Reckoning [one-action] (manipulate, occult, void) Frequency once 
per round; Requirements The skeletal Hellknight bonesinger’s 
last action was to damage an enemy with a melee Strike; 
Effect The bonesinger pulls at the bones of the creature they 
just damaged, releasing a pulse of void energy. That creature 
takes 4d8 void damage and must attempt a DC 23 Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature takes no damage.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes full damage and is drained 1.
233
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 235 =====
SERVANTS OF URGATHOA
Sarcovalts exist only to serve 
Urgathoa and her followers, with 
little capacity to think or reason 
beyond their desire to see their 
mistress’s will done. They’re a 
favored summon by powerful 
Urgathoans to aid in their plots, as 
sarcovalts are seen as their goddess’s 
will made manifest.
Sarcovalt
There are few creatures throughout the multiverse more bizarrely revolting 
than the sarcovalt, a fiend with the body of a fly and the head of a fleshless 
vulture skull. While a creature barely 2 feet long might not seem threatening, 
sarcovalt swarms can overwhelm entire villages. Sarcovalts’ heads almost 
seem to be wholly separate entities from their bodies and will vomit up 
whatever they capture in their beaks hours later as putrid, coagulated sludge.
SARCOVALT
Individual sarcovalts have almost no personal identities and incredibly 
short-term memories.
SARCOVALT
CREATURE 5
TINY
FIEND
UNHOLY
Perception +13; darkvision, lifesense (imprecise) 60 feet (Pathfinder Monster 
Core 359)
Languages Chthonian, Necril; telepathy 30 feet (Pathfinder Monster Core 360)
Skills Acrobatics +13, Athletics +12, Intimidation +12, Stealth +13
Str +1, Dex +5, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha –1
AC 21; Fort +11, Ref +15, Will +10; +1 status to all saves vs. death effects
HP 75; Immunities disease, poison, sickened; Weaknesses holy 5; Resistances 
acid 5, cold 5
Aura of Blight (aura, disease) 15 feet. The sarcovalt is surrounded by a miasma of 
infection. An enemy that enters or ends their turn in the aura must attempt a 
DC 19 Fortitude save.
Success The creature is unaffected and becomes temporarily immune to the 
aura for 1 minute.
Failure Until the end of its next turn, the creature takes a –1 circumstance 
penalty to saves against disease effects.
Critical Failure Until the end of its next turn, the creature takes a –2 
circumstance bonus against disease effects and is enfeebled 1.
Befouled Body Any water the sarcovalt touches becomes diseased with filth fever.
Filth Fever (disease) Saving Throw DC 23 Fortitude; Onset 1d4 days; Stage 1 
sickened 1 (1 day); Stage 2 drained 1 (1 day); Stage 3 drained 2 (1 day)
Reactive Detach [reaction] Trigger The sarcovalt takes slashing damage from a creature 
while they have another creature grabbed or restrained; Effect The sarcovalt 
uses Detach Head. Their head keeps the other creature grabbed or restrained, 
and their body Steps. The sarcovalt gains resistance 5 to the triggering 
slashing damage.
Return to Sender [reaction] Trigger A creature escapes from being grabbed or restrained 
by the sarcovalt’s detached head; Effect The sarcovalt’s head returns to their 
body via the shortest possible path. Any creature in a straight line between the 
head and the body must succeed at a DC 21 Reflex save or become clumsy 1 for 
1 round (clumsy 2 on a critical failure). The sarcovalt Dismisses Detach Head.
Speed 20 feet, climb 20 feet, fly 40 feet
Melee [one-action] beak +15 (finesse, magical, reach 5 feet), Damage 2d8+4 piercing plus 
3 persistent bleed and Grab (Pathfinder Monster Core 359)
Occult Innate Spells DC 21; 3rd vomit swarm (Pathfinder Player Core 2 254); 2nd 
acid grip; 1st enfeeble, goblin pox; Cantrips (3rd) daze
Detach Head [free-action] (occult) Trigger The sarcovalt takes damage from a critical hit with a 
slashing weapon or has their head removed (such as by a vorpal weapon); Effect 
The sarcovalt can survive decapitation and isn’t killed if an effect that removes 
their head would kill them. Instead, the sarcovalt’s head becomes detached from 
234

===== Page 236 =====
BRINGER OF PLAGUE
Sarcovalt swarms bring disease with 
them, wiping out entire villages in a 
matter of days. The creatures feast 
on the infected bodies, unbothered 
by any illness thanks to their 
connection to Urgathoa.
their body. The detached head has the same statistics as the body (except for the 
aura of blight) and gains the minion trait. The sarcovalt’s body can issue a verbal 
command to the detached head as a single action, giving the head 2 actions. The 
detached head and body share the same pool of Hit Points. 
While their head is detached, the sarcovalt’s body can’t make beak Strikes 
or use Malodorous Shriek. The detached head can only Climb, Fly, Stride, make 
beak Strikes, or use Malodorous Shriek.
Malodorous Shriek [two-actions] (occult, olfactory, poison, sonic) The sarcovalt screeches 
through their skull (detached or not), spraying whatever festering viscera 
remains in their head in a 20-foot cone. Each creature in the area takes 3d6 
sonic damage and 3d6 poison damage (DC 21 basic Reflex save). The sarcovalt 
can’t use this ability again for 1d4 rounds.
SARCOVALT SWARM
In most cases, it’s very unlikely that one will come across a sarcovalt on 
their own. More likely, a swarm of Urgathoa’s disgusting creations will be 
beset upon an unfortunate village, the creatures just clever enough to duck 
away from the best attempts to kill them
SARCOVALT SWARM
CREATURE 9
LARGE
FIEND
SWARM
UNHOLY
Perception +19; darkvision, lifesense (imprecise) 60 feet 
(Pathfinder Monster Core 359)
Languages Chthonian, Necril; telepathy 30 feet (Pathfinder 
Monster Core 360)
Skills Acrobatics +20, Athletics +18, Intimidation +18, 
Stealth +20
Str +2, Dex +6, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha –1
AC 27; Fort +17, Ref +21, Will +16; +1 status to all saves vs. 
death effects
HP 155; Immunities disease, grabbed, poison, precision, 
prone, restrained, sickened, swarm mind; Weaknesses area 
damage 10, holy 10, splash damage 10; Resistances bludgeoning 
5, piercing 10, slashing 10
Aura of Blight (aura) 15 feet, DC 25. As sarcovalt, except a creature 
is enfeebled 2 on a critical failure.
Speed 20 feet, climb 20 feet, fly 40 feet
Occult Innate Spells DC 27; 4th acid grip; 3rd grim tendrils; Cantrips 
(5th) daze
Droning Waste [one-action] (auditory, mental) The buzzing of the swarm’s wings hit an 
unholy pitch, making those who hear it feel dizzy and lightheaded. Each 
creature within a 15-foot emanation must attempt a DC 27 Will save. On a 
failure, it is stupefied 1 and takes a –1 circumstance penalty to attack rolls 
until the start of its next turn (stupefied 2 on a critical failure).
Heads Will Roll [three-actions] The swarm detaches its heads from its bodies and rains 
them down on its enemies in a 10-foot burst radius within 30 feet. Each head 
deals falling damage, as if falling from 20 feet up, on any creature it lands 
on and otherwise takes the damage itself. If a head has a creature within its 
reach after it falls, it attempts to bite that creature. If any of these bites are 
critical successes, the head can immediately attempt to Grapple the creature.
Melee bite +15 (reach 10 feet), Damage 3d8+5 piercing damage
Swarming Bites [one-action] Each enemy in the swarm’s space takes 4d6 piercing damage 
and 2d4 persistent bleed damage (DC 27 basic Fortitude save).
235
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 237 =====
Brakknap, an elder goblin of the village of Thorngrip, 
is one of the few living goblins who witnessed 
firsthand the atrocities visited on goblinkind after the 
Goblinblood Wars. Many of his family, including his 
father and grandmother, lost their lives in the fires that 
burned the Chitterwood, and Brakknap is cursed to 
be haunted by their spirits to this day. Despite this 
personal loss, he doesn’t wish destruction on the 
human residents of Isger. He believes that these terrible 
wounds between humans and goblins can be healed, 
though both sides have to forget their prejudices and 
work together.
When hobgoblin commanders first entered the 
Chitterwood to gather goblin recruits for their 
attempted conquest of Isger, most of Brakknap’s 
family and neighbors refused the call. They were wary 
of waging war against their humanoid neighbors, even 
if said neighbors were more hostile than not. Other 
goblin villages, however, were eager to strike back 
against Isgeri humans who’d pushed their kind deeper 
and deeper into the woods. They knew that many 
humans called them “monsters” and “pests,” and 
believed it was their time to fight 
for supremacy. Brakknap saw 
distant kin and fellow goblins 
take part in burning and pillaging 
the Isgeri countryside, only to be 
killed in retaliation.
War changed Chitterwood 
greatly, and not all goblins 
joined up of their own free will. 
Brakknap witnessed goblins being 
forced into the ranks, though his family 
thankfully avoided such conscription. 
Nevertheless, the world became grim 
as the war raged on. The Chitterwood 
was no longer just a home, but now a 
battlefield.
Years later, the tides of the war turned and 
humans began burning the Chitterwood in 
efforts to completely exterminate the country’s 
goblins. Humans went deeper into the woods 
than they’d ever dared before, zealous in 
their desire to burn down the homes of 
their enemies. Many goblins, Brakknap’s 
father among them, attempted to defend their homes 
but were cut down by members of the Isgeri Slayers, 
an organization of anti-goblin bigots formed during 
the wars that has been determined to wipe out 
goblinkind ever since. On that fateful night, Brakknap 
saw his father stand up to a human and then fall to 
their blade. He watched as his father’s blood pooled 
in the dirt before his grandmother pulled him away to 
flee their burning village.
A handful of goblins made it to a nearby cave 
they hoped the humans didn’t know about. As they 
waited, they watched smoke rise over the tops of the 
trees, the fires burning brighter than even the sunrise. 
Eventually, the sky began to lighten, but before they 
could breathe sighs of relief, several Isgeri Slayers 
approached. Though they seemed to be wandering 
around in the dark, it was clear that it was only a 
matter of time before they spotted the cave entrance. 
Brakknap’s grandmother, the village’s healer and a 
student of primal magic, kissed her grandson on the 
forehead and stepped out into the dawn. Brakknap 
muffled his cries with his hand and retreated deeper 
into the cave with his fellows.
Brakknap saw his grandmother 
transform into a stag and lead the 
slayers away from the cave, leading to 
her own demise. But her sacrifice 
meant that what remained of the 
villagers were safe. Brakknap knew 
that his grandmother perished that 
day, for her spirit visited him that 
night to tell him the area was safe 
again.
Being able to speak to one’s 
deceased ancestors is an honored 
tradition in many goblin communities, 
so when Brakknap told the others 
of his grandmother, they believed him 
and heeded his guidance. Over the next 
several days, more and more goblin spirits 
appeared to Brakknap, some of whom he 
recognized as family from his youth, and 
others spoke to him of times long past. 
Through them, Brakknap was granted 
small glimpses into the immediate future, 
236
Brakknap
Goblin Oracle Who Remembers

===== Page 238 =====
allowing him and his fellow goblins to avoid further 
Isgeri Slayer patrols as they moved deeper into the 
forest.
Finally, the group reached the large sequoia around 
which Thorngrip would be built. Brakknap fell to 
his knees as he saw the spirit of his father standing 
next to that tall tree, beckoning him forward. He told 
Brakknap to form a village at this spot, one that would 
be protected from outside interference and be a haven 
to downtrodden goblins throughout Isger. To prove 
his words, the spirit of Brakknap’s father raised a wall 
of thorns in a large circle around the tree, hiding its 
base from the scrutiny of passing humans. The goblins 
began to build in the safety of this new sanctuary, 
naming it Thorngrip for the wall that protected them.
Approximately 20 years have passed since that day. 
The goblins of Thorngrip welcomed many goblins 
whose previous homes were burned at the end of 
the Goblinblood Wars and who have been fleeing 
persecution since then, growing the village by leaps and 
bounds. Once the ground was packed with buildings, 
the goblins began constructing homes attached to the 
giant sequoia, but never higher than the town’s thorny 
wall. Though such a settlement might appear to be 
quite noticeable by its description, the density of the 
thorns have warded off any natural predators while 
humans and other goblin-hunters unconsciously avoid 
the area, as if it didn’t exist.
For the entirety of the town’s history, Brakknap has 
served as an advisor but never an outright leader. His 
magic has been instrumental in saving more than a 
few goblin lives as they try to escape from those that 
would do them harm. All the while, Brakknap hopes 
for a day in which Thorngrip no longer needs to hide.
Brakknap’s great dream is that humans and goblins 
will live together in peace. However, the continued 
existence of groups like the Isgeri Slayers stymies that 
dream, their bigotry and violence a direct counter to 
hopes of peace. While small examples like the town of 
Stumpfield show that his goals are certainly possible 
and even probable, there’s still much work to be done 
before the goblins of Isger can fully make peace with 
their humanoid neighbors. Though it might take time, 
maybe even another six generations of goblins to do 
so, Brakknap hopes to see that day come.
Campaign Role
Brakknap serves as the party’s main contact with the 
goblins of Chitterwood in Chapter 3. Once the PCs 
prove to the village that they can be trusted, Brakknap 
becomes a trusted ally, as he sees the potential of what 
the Hellbreakers League is doing to free Isger. Though 
his ancestors warn him that trusting non-goblins 
might come to no good, Brakknap believes in the PCs’ 
mission.
The elderly goblin also plays a crucial role in 
Chapter 7, aiding the PCs in lifting the curse on 
Gillamoor. This event can possibly end in Brakknap’s 
demise, but otherwise he continues to support the PCs 
and their goals. The goblins of Thorngrip might even 
come to the League’s aid in later chapters, led by this 
optimistic oracle.
Post-campaign, Brakknap is a key figure in the 
founding of Scorchhome and works hard to improve 
goblinoid relations with humanoids. He encourages 
peaceful coexistence between the two and hopes for 
the two nations to live in harmony.
BRAKKNAP	
CREATURE 4
UNIQUE
SMALL
GOBLIN
HUMANOID
Male goblin oracle
Perception +11; darkvision
Languages Common, Goblin
Skills Chitterwood Lore +10, Diplomacy +12, Medicine +10, 
Nature +10, Occultism +10, Religion +12, Society +12
Str +0, Dex, +3, Con +1, Int +1, Wis +2, Cha +5
Items hand crossbow (10 bolts), leather armor, light mace
AC 20; Fort +8, Ref +11, Will +14
HP 55
Goblin Scuttle [reaction] Trigger A goblin ally ends a move action 
adjacent to Brakknap; Effect Brakknap Steps.
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] light mace +12 (agile, finesse, shove), Damage 
1d4+4 bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] hand crossbow +12 (range increment 60 feet), 
Damage 1d6+4 piercing
Divine Spontaneous Spells DC 21; 2nd (4 slots) augury, 
ghostly carrier, noise blast, share life; 1st (4 slots) heal, 
ill omen, protection, spirit link; Cantrips (2nd) daze, 
guidance, shield, stabilize, vitality lash
Evoke Fault [one-action] (concentrate, divine) The spirits of his 
ancestors tell Brakknap of a weakness of a foe within 
30 feet. Until the end of his turn, Brakknap gains a +1 
status bonus to the attack roll of his next Strike against 
that target, and that Strike deals an extra 1d6 precision 
damage. At the end of his turn, Brakknap becomes 
clumsy 1 for 1 minute. If Brakknap uses Evoke Fault 
while clumsy, he increases the value of his clumsy 
condition by 1, to a maximum of clumsy 3.
Vision of Goblins’ Fall [one-action] (concentrate, divine, emotion, 
fear, mental) Frequency once per 10 minutes; Effect 
Brakknap touches a foe, making them experience 
the pain suffered by Chitterwood goblins during the 
Goblinblood Wars. The target takes 3d6 mental damage 
(DC 21 basic Will save). A creature that fails the save is 
also frightened 1 (frightened 2 on a critical failure).
237
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 239 =====
Caeto hails from a large family of ranchers in rural 
Isger near Saringallow. Growing up, he loathed both 
the routine of pastoral life and the helplessness of 
commoners against cattle thieves and bandits. People 
had a sense of law and order, yet it never felt enforced; 
life was instead full of compromises and forbearance. 
The few guards and sheriffs around did nothing for the 
people, and neither did the government. Elidir never 
answered any calls for deliverance, and the local militia 
was useless. Caeto wanted real change, and it was never 
coming—not while Hedvend was in charge, anyway.
After many arguments with his family over 
fundamental beliefs and values, Caeto left as soon as 
he was able to seek the unwavering justice he desired 
at Citadel Dinyar, home of the Order of the Godclaw.
Caeto progressed quickly, and in his third year as 
an armiger, he slew a devil and earned his place as a 
Hellknight. At only 18, he was unusually young among 
his peers, but what he lacked in combat experience, he 
made up for with his force of personality. His social 
skills shined even in times of conflict, and he helped 
his maralictor coordinate with the Steel Falcons and 
Blackjackets in secrecy even before a formal alliance 
during the Goblinblood Wars was formed.
The Goblinblood Wars were a nightmare for Caeto, 
with true lawlessness destroying his home. He fought 
bitterly against hobgoblin generals and was eager to 
light the torches that burned down the Chitterwood to 
raze the goblins’ own homes.
As one of the few veterans of the Goblinblood Wars, 
Caeto was promoted to maralictor and joined the 
Godclaw’s outreach efforts, which took him far from 
his home country. For over a decade, Caeto seldom 
thought of Isger, even when he debated what law and 
order entailed with friends he made from the Orders 
of the Chain and the Rack.
Things changed when Caeto died defending Citadel 
Dinyar against the Glorious Reclamation. Though 
many of the Godclaw defenders were resurrected, 
Caeto didn’t expect himself to be among them. He 
had, as far as he thought then, very little emotional 
investment among the living. In questioning why he 
returned, Caeto turned his sights back on his homeland 
for the first time in years.
What little he glimpsed of Isger disgusted him, 
though he knew then he didn’t have the authority to 
challenge the steward. His home country needed law 
and order, yet those who ruled it only catered to the 
wealthy to cling to their status. More and more, Isger’s 
fate gnawed at him.
The Hellknight worked toward becoming a 
paralictor by controversially exonerating Iomedaean 
Hellknights. In 4724 ar, Caeto received his promotion 
and witnessed the Godsrain during the ceremony. The 
whispers of rebellion and the Hellbreakers League’s 
hunt for warshards have convinced him that it’s time 
to properly bring Isger back into Cheliax’s lawful 
grasp.
238
Caeto Vulaunex
Self-Righteous Hellknight

===== Page 240 =====
Campaign Role
The PCs first meet Caeto during Chapter 4, where he’s 
a potential ally with a genuine desire to reform Isger. 
Though he despises Hedvend, the serious nature of 
his murder makes him supportive of the PCs during 
their investigation. While he’s Isgeri, Caeto is out of 
touch with current events and trends. The Hellknight 
remains an affable if socially outdated man who seems 
not as intimidating as his armor suggests.
Once the homicide is solved and Hedvend properly 
dead, Caeto shows his true colors by placing Isger 
under martial law and framing the Hellbreakers for 
Hedvend’s murder. His relentless pursuit to capture 
the rebels over defending the commoner against 
the undead invasion speaks volumes about Caeto’s 
misplaced priorities, ironically reflecting the policies 
of the steward he so despised. Caeto’s warped 
determination to capture the Hellbreakers at all costs 
blinds him to his original principles, even as he claims 
to bring order to Isger. The self-righteous Hellknight 
ultimately becomes the final villain the PCs must 
defeat to finally free Isger from the chains of servitude 
that Cheliax has placed upon it.
Edicts and Anathema
As a Hellknight and champion of Asmodeus, Caeto’s 
actions are guided by specific rules.
Edicts eliminate chaos at its root, be an exemplar of 
order (worthy of not one, but five), seek the universal 
laws that transcend individual faiths, enforce proper 
hierarchies, topple illegitimate hierarchies, lead when 
you’re the most suited to the task, hunt down those 
who have harmed innocents or committed heinous 
atrocities.
Anathema rest when there’s lawlessness to fight, believe 
you know or understand more than the Godclaw 
pantheon, let one who’s lesser than you wield power 
over you or lead you
CAETO VULAUNEX	
CREATURE 11
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Male human Hellknight
Perception +21
Languages Common, Diabolic, Goblin
Skills Athletics +23, Diplomacy +25, Hell Lore +21, 
Intimidation +25, Medicine +21, Religion +21, Society +19, 
Warfare Lore +20
Str +5, Dex +0, Con +3, Int +2, Wis +3, Cha +7
Items +1 Hellknight plate (Treasure Vault 10), +1 striking 
shifting longsword, minor sturdy shield, wooden religious 
symbol of Asmodeus 
AC 30 (32 with shield raised); Fort +21, Ref +18, Will +24 
(+26 against mental)
HP 200; Resistances slashing 10
Godclaw Aura (aura, divine) 15 feet. Followers of any 
deities on the Godclaw pantheon or of the pantheon 
itself within the aura immediately know Caeto is a 
champion of the Godclaw.
Shield Block [reaction]
Steel Command [reaction] (divine, emotion, mental) Trigger A 
creature in Caeto’s aura damages him; Effect Caeto 
commands his enemy to kneel in supplication. The 
triggering creature must attempt a DC 30 Will save. They 
then become immune to Steel Command for 1 minute.
Success The creature must choose to drop prone as 
a free action or take 3d6 mental damage and 1d8 
persistent spirit damage.
Failure The creature must choose to drop prone as a free 
action and be slowed 1 or take 6d6 mental damage 
and 2d8 persistent spirit damage.
Critical Failure The creature drops prone, is slowed 1, 
and takes 12d6 mental damage and 2d8 persistent 
spirit damage
Speed 25 feet
Melee [one-action] shifting longsword +24 (magical, versatile P), 
Damage 2d8+11 slashing plus lawbreaker’s bane
Champion Devotion Spells (6th) 3 Focus Points, DC 30; 
commanding lash (Pathfinder Player Core 380), lay on 
hands (Player Core 2 255), touch of obedience (Player 
Core 380)
Hand of the Avenger [free-action] (divine, manipulate, spirit) Caeto 
evokes his oath to bring justice to those he deems 
a threat to Isger. Until the end of his turn, Caeto can 
use his lay on hands to damage an enemy in his aura as 
if they were undead, dealing spirit damage instead of 
vitality damage.
Lawbreaker’s Bane Caeto gains a +4 status bonus on 
damage to Strikes against targets that he knows have 
broken the law. The bonus increases to +6 if the target is 
a known member of the Hellbreakers League.
Oppressive Might [one-action] (divine, concentrate, emotion, 
fear, mental, visual) Caeto uses his posture to assert 
dominance over the masses. He attempts an Intimidation 
check to Demoralize all non-allied creatures within 60 
feet. He doesn’t take a penalty against targets who don’t 
understand his language. On a critical success, that 
target doesn’t become temporarily immune to Caeto’s 
other attempts to Demoralize them.
Subdue Fugitive [two-actions] Frequency once per minute; 
Requirements Caeto is wielding his longsword; Effect 
Caeto uses his shifting rune’s Shift Weapon to transform 
his sword into a flail and makes a melee Strike with it. 
If the Strike hits and deals damage, he can attempt an 
Athletics check as a free action to Disarm or Trip the 
target of the Strike. This attempt neither applies nor 
counts toward Caeto’s multiple attack penalty.
239
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 241 =====
Ezio Gaeta is, was, and always has been an Isgeri 
patriot. And like many such loyalists born in the 
country, he came to rue his poor nation’s role as 
Cheliax’s vassal state. Unfortunately for Isger, Ezio 
found his solution in Urgathoa’s teachings. Suffering 
from the deprivations common to many under the 
stewards’ governorship, he latched onto his Kellid 
ancestors’ view of the Pallid Princess as a harvest 
goddess, one who provides unlimited bounty for her 
people. Her calls for gluttony and excess were just 
what a people long forced into the barest subsistence 
deserved.
When he reached his 50th birthday in 4675 ar, 
Ezio decided he needed more time, more power, more 
control. Knowing of Illcayna Alonnor’s story and 
her devotion to their shared goddess, he journeyed 
to Finder’s Gulch and sought her help. Illcayna saw 
something in him, a slyness and devotion to Urgathoa 
that set Ezio apart from those unworthy of becoming 
more than senseless zombies or her servile wights. 
At his pleading, she ritually transformed him into a 
unique vampire in return for his loyalty, which he gave 
gladly.
For several decades, Ezio moved as Illcayna’s agent 
in the world, quietly spreading Urgathoa’s faith and 
sabotaging Chelaxian efforts to take the final dregs 
of Isger’s resources. In the 4680s, he led occasional 
brutal raids against goblin villages in the Chitterwood, 
making already bad conditions even less tolerable, 
and arranged for explosive confrontations between 
the Chitterwood residents, nearby villages, and 
passing bands of adventurers and mercenaries. His 
machinations contributed to the festering anger of the 
region that eventually exploded in the Goblinblood 
Wars. While Illcayna collected corpses for her undead 
army, Ezio traveled to Elidir, where he began amassing 
influence.
In the decades after the war, he has only increased 
his manipulations of Isger’s leadership, using his 
position to feed Illcayna information on the political 
climate and quietly eliminate threats to her plans. 
In response to reports of heroes clearing Citadel 
Altaerein, Ezio choreographed the arrival of Taotake 
traders with a shipload of Mwangi onyx, flooding the 
market and lowering prices for the key ingredient in 
the ritual to create undead. Similarly, he has spent 
30 years pulling strings to keep powerful clerics 
out of Elidir in preparation for the day Illcayna 
conquers the nation. His subtle methods include 
creating crises that lure the best clerics out of the 
country and fostering conditions that make the city 
conducive to those who, even if devout in faith, are less 
likely or able to take the field against the countryside’s 
growing undead threat.
In following Illcayna’s orders, Ezio believes he’s 
clearing the way for her plans to transform the 
country into a tribute state for Urgathoa. He 
sees this gruesome future not as an end, but a 
renewal of Isger where the people will finally 
have the power and resources to take what 
they’re due. 
240
Ezio Gaeta
Secret Vampire Agent of Urgathoa

===== Page 242 =====
Campaign Role
Ezio serves as a critical catalyst for the second half of 
the campaign when he murders Steward Hedvend VI, 
throwing the nation into turmoil at the loss of its leader 
and ushering Illcayna in as a major threat. Prior to the 
murder, the PCs can encounter him at the gala, where he 
comes across as an enigma. He’s clearly one of the elites 
of Elidir and contributes to Isger’s problems, but he also 
seems to have little loyalty to the regime and might even 
be seen as a potential ally and target for recruitment by 
the PCs. Once the murder is discovered, he plays a cat-
and-mouse game with the PCs, attempting to distract 
them with red herrings and false evidence as they seek 
the identity of Hedvend’s killer and to solve the mystery 
of the ongoing deaths in Reevesrest.
EZIO GAETA
CREATURE 7
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
UNHOLY
VAMPIRE
Male vampire count
Perception +16; darkvision
Languages Common, Diabolic, Hallit, Necril
Skills Athletics +15, Deception +17, Diplomacy +17, Religion 
+15, Society +15, Stealth +13, Thievery +13
Str +2, Dex +2, Con +4, Int +1, Wis +6, Cha +3
Items devil costume, encryption ring
Children of the Night (divine, mental) Ezio’s presence 
brings forth creatures of the night to do his bidding. Ezio 
can give telepathic orders to these creatures as long 
as they’re within 100 feet, but they can’t communicate 
back. Ezio prefers to keep the company of rat swarms.
AC 25; Fort +14, Ref +13, Will +18
HP 90, coffin restoration (Pathfinder Monster Core 334), 
fast healing 7 (Monster Core 359), void healing (Monster 
Core 360); Immunities death effects, disease, paralyzed, 
poison, sleep; Resistances physical 7 (except magical 
silver)
Hypnotic Gaze (aura, divine, mental, visual) 30 feet. Even 
when he’s not attempting to Dominate a creature, Ezio 
uses his power over others’ minds to subtly befuddle 
them, helping enable his plots. Creatures in the aura take 
a –1 status penalty to Perception checks to Sense Motive 
and Perception DCs against Ezio. When a creature ends 
its turn in Ezio’s aura, it must attempt a DC 22 Will save. 
On a failure, it becomes stupefied 1 for 1 round (stupefied 
2 for 1 round on a critical failure).
Vampire Vulnerabilities Monster Core 334
Cloud of Plague [free-action] (disease) Trigger Ezio is reduced to 0 
HP; Effect Ezio’s body explodes in a bloody mist that 
carries a deadly plague. Each living creature in a 15-foot 
emanation must succeed at a DC 22 Fortitude save or 
contract choking death (GM Core 88) at stage 1 (stage 2 
on a critical failure). Ezio bursts forth from the corpse of 
the first creature to die of this affliction, fully healed, but 
if all affected creatures are cured of the disease, Ezio is 
permanently destroyed.
Speed 25 feet, climb 25 feet
Melee [one-action] claw +18 (agile), Damage 2d8+5 slashing plus 
Grab (Monster Core 359)
Change Shape [one-action] (concentrate, divine, polymorph) Ezio 
transforms into a swarm of Tiny flies. While in this form, 
he has the swarm trait and gains weakness 7 to area 
and splash damage. He has a land Speed of 20 feet and 
a fly Speed of 30 feet, and can fit into spaces only a few 
inches wide, moving his constituent creatures through 
the gap. He can’t make any of his normal Strikes but 
gains the Biting Flies action.
Biting Flies [one-action] Each creature that shares a space with 
Ezio takes 3d8 piercing damage with a DC 25 basic 
Reflex save. On a critical failure, Ezio also gains the 
benefits of Drinking that creature’s Blood. 
Create Servitor (divine, downtime) If a creature dies after 
being reduced to 0 HP by Drink Blood, Ezio can turn this 
victim into a vampire servitor by donating some of his 
own blood to the victim and burying the victim in earth 
for 3 nights. A vampiric servitor is compelled to obey its 
creator, but if Ezio controls too many vampiric servitors 
at once (as determined by the GM), or if the servitor is 
a higher level than Ezio, strong-willed servitors can free 
themselves by succeeding at a DC 25 Will saving throw.
Dominate [two-actions] (divine, incapacitation, mental, visual) 
Ezio can cast dominate at will as a divine innate spell. 
Casting it requires staring into the target’s eyes, giving 
the spell the visual trait. The DC is 23, and a creature 
that succeeds is temporarily immune to Ezio’s Dominate 
for 24 hours. Fully destroying Ezio ends the domination, 
but merely reducing Ezio to 0 HP is insufficient to break 
the spell.
Drink Blood [one-action] (divine) Requirements A grabbed, 
paralyzed, restrained, unconscious, or willing creature is 
within Ezio’s reach; Effect Ezio sinks his fangs into that 
creature to drink their blood. This requires a successful 
Athletics check against the victim’s Fortitude DC if the 
victim is grabbed and is automatic for any of the other 
conditions. The victim is drained 1, and Ezio regains 
10 HP. Drinking Blood from a creature that’s already 
drained doesn’t restore any HP to Ezio but increases 
the victim’s drained value by 1, killing the victim when 
it reaches drained 5.
A victim’s drained condition decreases by 1 per week. 
A blood transfusion, which requires a successful DC 20 
Medicine check and sufficient blood or a blood donor, 
reduces this drained value by 1 after 10 minutes.
Turn to Mist [one-action] (air, concentrate, divine, polymorph) Ezio 
turns into a cloud of vapor, as the vapor form spell, or 
back to his normal form. Ezio loses fast healing while 
turned to mist. Ezio can remain in this form indefinitely. 
241
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 243 =====
Illcayna grew up as a member of the Urgathoan cult 
of the Shepherds of the Affliction, traveling about Isger 
and Cheliax with her parents under the guise of an 
apothecary in their caravan. Sickly since birth, Illcayna 
believed she was blessed by Urgathoa. When her 
parents succumbed to a disease of their own making, 
she danced on their graves in celebration of the feverish 
delirium she gained. These fervent visions helped her 
and her fellow cultists evade capture in following years. 
Eventually, Illcayna and her flock arrived at Finder’s 
Gulch, where a group of Ashen Church cultists resided.
In the reflection of the scythe the local priestess 
wielded, Illcayna witnessed her own impending death 
and rebirth. Waiting for that promised day as a lowly 
junior priestess was a trial in itself. Her patience paid 
off though, and at last the day came when the Ashen 
Church lost control of the wights they spent so long 
creating. As the other cultists fled, Illcayna picked up 
the scythe the Ashen priestess dropped, cut herself 
open, and let the undead horde devour her. Upon her 
last breath, Illcayna rose as a Child of Urgathoa, the 
ancient Kellid weapon Reaper’s Sigh fused to her. She’d 
become the promised herald of Urgathoa’s winter, 
who must now begin the long work of preparing Isger 
to be reaped and offered to the Pallid Princess. Only 
then will the promise to truly free Isger, made long ago 
when Taldor came to conquer these lands, be fulfilled.
Illcayna spent the next decades plotting to overrun 
Isger with undead. She cursed the town of Gillamoor so 
the dead would rise as her wights, which was initially 
mistaken for a plague. She also collected bodies from 
the Goblinblood Wars and has quietly killed and 
reanimated bandit gangs that veer too close to Finder’s 
Gulch. Her agents, most prominently Ezio Gaeta (page 
240), have assisted her machinations and helped her 
compete with the diabolist Kaltessa Iyis, who was 
amassing her own undead army until recently.
Not long before the campaign begins, Illcayna 
discovered a piece of the fallen Gorum in the hills 
outside of Finder’s Gulch. This blood-red lump 
of metal pulsed at her touch, and she named it the 
Bleeding Heart of Urgathoa before engaging in a 
ritual that embedded it into her chest. The ritual 
was flawed, drastically diminishing her undead form 
without granting her mythic powers, but granted 
her an unholy vision of a new ritual that could fully 
empower the warshard and allow her to devastate the 
Isgeri countryside in Urgathoa’s name.
Campaign Role
In the century since her transformation, 
Illcayna has had her agents sow rumors of 
the Wight Mother of Isger being the destined 
ruler of an undead nation dedicated to 
Urgathoa. Her title became an urban legend, 
used to terrify children to behave, yet one that 
242
Illcayna Alonnor
Wight Mother of Isger

===== Page 244 =====
seemed too distant a threat to be a modern concern. 
Her presence during the Hellbreakers campaign starts 
off indirect and subtle, with only small hints of undead 
elements in the countryside, then escalates terrifyingly 
fast in Chapter 7 as her triumph nears. It might come 
as a shock that the PCs must face Illcayna, but if the 
Hellbreakers don’t act, there won’t be an Isger to 
liberate. Note that Illcayna can’t access the gifts of 
Reaper’s Sigh due to its current state of corruption; 
the PCs gain access to those abilities once the scythe 
has been cleansed.
ILLCAYNA ALONNOR	
CREATURE 9
UNIQUE
LARGE
UNDEAD
UNHOLY
Female daughter of Urgathoa
Perception +21; darkvision
Languages Chthonian, Common, Diabolic, Necril
Skills Acrobatics +14, Athletics +20, Deception +17, 
Intimidation +17, Religion +20, Stealth +14, Urgathoa 
Lore +22
Str +7, Dex +4, Con +5, Int +3, Wis +5, Cha +6
Items bands of force, Bleeding Heart of Urgathoa, potion of 
shared memories, Reaper’s Sigh (page 214)
Bleeding Heart of Urgathoa Red ichor drips from the 
heart-shaped warshard embedded in Illcayna’s chest. 
This warshard functions as a greater symbol of conflict, 
except it’s attuned only to Urgathoa. As long as Illcayna 
exists, non-Urgathoans can’t use the warshard even 
if it’s removed. If Illcayna dies, the warshard acts as a 
regular greater symbol of conflict.
Reaper’s Sigh Illcayna is fused with Reaper’s Sigh, granting 
her a +4 circumstance bonus to her Reflex DC against 
attempts to Disarm the scythe. This bonus is reduced 
to +2 for 1 round after she’s critically hit with a slashing 
weapon.
AC 27; Fort +18, Ref +15, Will +21; +1 status bonus against 
holy effects
HP 160, void healing (Pathfinder Monster Core 360); 
Immunities death effects, disease, paralyzed, poison, 
unconscious; Weaknesses holy 7, vitality 7
Field of Unholy Undeath (aura, divine, unholy) 40 feet. 
Undead allies within the aura gain a +1 status bonus 
to attack rolls and saving throws. If the ally has void 
healing, they also gain fast healing 5. A living creature 
who doesn’t worship Urgathoa takes 6d6 void damage 
(DC 26 basic Fortitude save) when they enter or start 
their turn in the aura. Regardless of the result of the 
saving throw, that creature becomes temporarily 
immune to the aura for 1 day. 
Share Blessings (disease, divine, unholy) When Illcayna is 
destroyed, she explodes in a blast of infectious rot. All 
creatures in a 10-foot emanation are exposed to pallid 
plague. 
Life to Unlife [reaction] (divine, unholy, void) Frequency once per 
minute; Trigger A creature within 30 feet that Illcayna 
can observe Casts a divine Spell with the healing trait; 
Effect Illcayna sadistically twists the healing magic 
against the living. She expends a prepared spell of the 
same rank as the triggering spell and then attempts 
to counteract the triggering spell using Religion. If she 
successfully counteracts the spell, Illcayna consumes 
the magic and regurgitates it as a 3-action harm spell of 
the rank of the countered spell.
Speed fly 40 feet
Melee [one-action] Reaper’s Sigh +21 (deadly d10, magical, reach 10 
feet, trip, unholy), Damage 2d10+13 slashing plus 1d4 
void
Melee [one-action] pallid touch +21 (agile, disease, magical, reach 10 
feet), Damage 2d10+7 void plus pallid plague
Melee [one-action] warshard-tipped entrail +21 (disease, magical, 
reach 20 feet, sweep, trip), Damage 2d4+7 piercing plus 
1d4 poison and pallid plague
Divine Innate Spells DC 27; 6th harm, sudden blight 
(Pathfinder Player Core 2 253); 4th bind undead (×2)
Divine Prepared Spells DC 27, attack +19; 5th summon 
undead, vampiric feast (×2); 4th divine wrath, silence, 
whispers of the void (Player Core 2 255); 3rd chilling 
darkness, crisis of faith, rouse skeletons (Player Core 2 
250); 2nd dispel magic (×2), sound body; 1st command, 
enfeeble (×2); Cantrips (5th) detect magic, divine lance, 
guidance, haunting hymn (Player Core 2 246), void warp
Cleric Domain Spells 2 Focus Points, DC 27, +19; 6th 
malignant sustenance (Player Core 380), touch of 
undeath (Player Core 380)
Rituals DC 29; create undead
Pallid Plague (disease, divine, virulent) Saving Throw DC 
27 Fortitude; Stage 1 carrier (3 days); Stage 2 3d8 void 
damage and doomed 1 (1 day); Stage 3 3d8 void damage, 
doomed 1, and drained 1 (1 day); Stage 4 4d8 void 
damage, doomed 2, and drained 1 (1 day); Stage 5 4d8 
void damage, doomed 3, and drained 2 (1 day); Stage 
6 dead. A creature that dies while infected with pallid 
plague rises as a wight.
Reap [two-actions] Illcayna makes a Reaper’s Sigh Strike and 
compares the attack roll result to the ACs of two foes 
who must both be within her melee reach. Roll damage 
only once, and apply it to each creature hit. Reap counts 
as two attacks for Illcayna’s multiple attack penalty.
Wake the Dead [two-actions] (divine) Frequency once per minute; 
Requirements Illcayna is adjacent to a creature that 
died within the last minute; Effect Illcayna animates 
the dead with a touch of her hand. The creature must 
succeed at a DC 29 Will save or arise as a wight. 
These wights automatically become loyal to Illcayna 
and independently act in her interest and follow her 
command until destroyed.
243
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 245 =====
Alceo grew up in Egorian with his elven mother, who 
fondly remembered and quietly taught him about life 
before the Thrune Ascendancy. Those lessons led him 
to Milani, and he eventually formed an underground 
network to help people escape from Cheliax. But 
his efforts were discovered during the Glorious 
Reclamation, and he fled east. That’s where Phoebe 
met him.
A former Isgeri army officer, Phoebe deserted 
during the Goblinblood Wars when she realized the 
military wasn’t protecting citizens. She then made a 
meager living as a mercenary, taking jobs she felt met 
her moral code. After she saved Alceo from a group 
of pursuing dottari, he hired her to protect him as he 
made his way to Andoran. As the two traveled east—
dealing with near-constant danger while avoiding the 
Conerica Straits to throw off pursuit—they realized 
they worked well together and had much in common. 
By the time they reached Isger’s eastern border, they 
were in love and decided to remain in the country to 
help its people together. 
Campaign Role
Alceo and Phoebe have led the Hellbreakers League 
since its founding in 4722 ar. They largely play a 
background role in this Adventure Path. They see 
the PCs’ potential to be the future leaders of the 
Hellbreakers League and want to give the PCs the 
freedom to grow into that role. When they’re in direct 
contact, starting in Chapter 4, Alceo and Phoebe offer 
guidance and encouragement to the PCs, each in their 
own style: Alceo with stirring words, while Phoebe 
seeks to bolster their martial prowess.
ALCEO DEMETRIAS	
CREATURE 7 
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
AIUVARIN
ELF
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Male aiuvarin human cleric of Milani
Perception +18; low-light vision
Languages Common, Diabolic, Elven
Skills Deception +15, Diplomacy +17, Religion +18, Society +15, 
Thievery +17 
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +2, Wis +6, Cha +4
Items leather armor, +1 morningstar, wooden religious 
symbol of Milani
AC 24; Fort +12, Ref +15, Will +18 
HP 100
Defy Devils! [reaction] (auditory, concentrate, emotion, fortune, 
linguistic, mental) Trigger A creature within 30 feet 
critically fails a saving throw or skill check against a 
devil, or a creature that worships devils or has a magical 
contract with a devil; Effect The triggering creature 
rerolls the check and must take the new result. It then 
becomes temporarily immune to Defy Devils! for 24 
hours.
Speed 25 feet 
Melee [one-action] morningstar +15 (magical, versatile P), Damage 
1d6+6 bludgeoning
244
The Riotmongers
Leaders of the Hellbreakers League

===== Page 246 =====
Divine Prepared Spells DC 25, attack +17; 4th fire shield, 
heal (×4), unfettered movement; 3rd anointed ground 
(Pathfinder Player Core 2 240), crisis of faith, enthrall; 
2nd clear mind, share life, spiritual armament; 1st alarm, 
sanctuary, sure strike; Cantrips (4th) bullhorn (Player 
Core 2 241), divine lance, guidance, shield, stabilize
Divine Innate Spells DC 25; Cantrips (4th) message (can 
only target Phoebe)
Cleric Domain Spells 1 Focus Point, DC 25; 1st unimpeded 
stride (Player Core 375)
Rituals DC 25; heartbond (Player Core 2 268)
Divine Weapon of Milani [free-action] Frequency once per turn; 
Trigger Alceo finishes Casting a Spell using one of his 
spell slots on his turn; Effect Milani blesses Alceo’s 
morningstar. Until the end of his turn, his morningstar 
Strikes deal an additional 2d4 spirit damage or 2d6 
spirit damage if the target is unholy.
Sense Heartbond [two-actions] (concentrate) Frequency once per 
day; Effect Alceo learns Phoebe’s present state. He 
knows her direction and distance, and any conditions 
affecting her.
PHOEBE DEMETRIAS
CREATURE 7 
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Female human commander
Perception +15
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Athletics +17, Intimidation +17, Medicine +13, Stealth 
+13, Warfare Lore +17 
Str +6, Dex +2, Con +4, Int +4, Wis +2, Cha +4
Items adventurer’s pack, chain mail, Hellbreakers League 
banner, +1 meteor hammer (Treasure Vault 268)
Warfare Expertise Phoebe can use Warfare Lore to Recall 
Knowledge about most creatures regardless of type, 
but typically only to determine whether they can be 
reasoned with, their most notable offensive abilities, and 
whether one of their saving throws is particularly weak.
AC 25; Fort +18, Ref +12, Will +15 
HP 120 
Banner Bearer (aura, emotion, mental, visual) 30 feet. As 
Phoebe displays the Hellbreakers League banner, all 
allies in the area gain a +1 status bonus to saves and DCs 
against devils and Hellknights.
Speed 25 feet 
Melee [one-action] meteor hammer +19 (backswing, disarm, magical, 
reach, trip), Damage 1d8+12 bludgeoning
Divine Innate Spells DC 25; Cantrips (4th) message (can 
only target Alceo)
Commander’s Orders [one-action] (auditory) Frequency once per 
round; Effect Phoebe calls out one of the following 
orders to all her allies in her Hellbreakers League banner 
aura, letting them immediately take the associated 
action as a reaction.
•	 On Guard! The ally can Raise a Shield, defensively 
position a weapon with the parry trait, or Take Cover. 
If the ally isn’t benefiting from cover or near a feature 
that allows them to Take Cover, they can fall prone as 
part of the reaction.
•	 Send Them Back to Hell An ally who’s flanking a devil, 
a creature that worships devils, or a creature that 
has a magical contract with a devil can immediately 
attempt a Strike.
•	 To Me! The ally can Stride but must end their 
movement in the aura. The ally can Burrow, Climb, 
Fly, or Swim instead of Striding if they have the 
corresponding movement type.
Sense Heartbond [two-actions] (concentrate) Frequency once per day; 
Effect Phoebe learns Alceo’s present state. She knows his 
direction and distance, and any conditions affecting him.
Trained Reaction [free-action] (auditory) Requirements Phoebe uses 
Commander’s Orders; Effect Phoebe grants one ally in 
her Hellbreakers League banner aura an extra reaction 
that they can use only to follow her Commander’s 
Orders. If they don’t use the reaction, it’s lost.
245
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 247 =====
Viro Ahala was born in Egorian to a successful, but 
not ridiculously wealthy, merchant family. He was 
afforded quite a few advantages growing up: good 
schooling, delicious food, and copious free time for 
athletic or academic hobbies. He lived as the epitome 
of Chelaxian privilege, studying under very good (but 
not the best) tutors and lacking nothing.
When Viro was nine, he saw Her Infernal Majestrix 
Abrogail Thrune II in person for the first time. His 
family was attending the public execution of several 
impudent halfling servants who’d dared protest 
against their masters. Abrogail Thrune also made 
an appearance, from the safety of a high balcony 
overlooking the square. Even from a distance, 
Viro could sense her imperious power; all those in 
attendance fell silent when she raised her hand to 
pronounce judgment on the criminals… until the 
protesters began to shout.
A small group of Egorian citizens were incensed 
at this execution, yelling that it was “unfair” and 
“barbaric.” The halflings’ crimes were minor—just a 
little civil disobedience—and they didn’t deserve death, 
according to the protesters. Their demonstration lasted 
less than five minutes, as a pair of heavily armored 
Hellknights pushed their way through the crowd and 
quickly beat the protesters into unconsciousness. With 
a nod from Abrogail, they were unceremoniously 
dragged onto the square’s dais and summarily executed 
alongside the halflings.
Right then, Viro Ahala knew what he wanted to do 
with his life.
He knew he would never rise to the same heights of 
power as Her Infernal Majestrix—his family’s station 
and lineage saw to that—but being the ironclad fist 
wielded by such a person appealed to his young mind. 
He spent the next decade training his mind and his 
body. He read every book he could get his hands on 
about the history of the Hellknights and the ordered 
structure of Hell they sought to emulate. He found 
a lot to admire in those tomes and scrolls. “This is 
the way the world should be,” he soon thought. “The 
smartest and strongest should rule, and the rest should 
be grateful for such oversight.” When not studying, 
Viro exercised and practiced his martial prowess. 
He knew he would have to grow strong enough 
to wear the massive plate armor that’s iconic 
to the Hellknight orders. His family fully 
supported this endeavor, as they too were 
ardent Thrune loyalists.
Eventually, Viro passed the trial to 
become a Hellknight armiger with 
the Order of the Rack. It was the 
proudest day of his life, even 
if it meant moving to Citadel 
Rivad near Westcrown. After 
another year of training, he began to impress his 
superiors and was stationed with other members of 
the order in Egorian, ready to crush any dissidence 
246
Viro Ahala
Vengeful Hellknight Armiger

===== Page 248 =====
that might arise in the nation’s capital. Now, Viro 
could be just like those Hellknights he witnessed in 
action over a decade ago.
All was well for months until the Godsrain and 
Abrogail Thrune’s quest to claim any fallen pieces of 
Gorum’s body, known as warshards. The Godsrain did 
little to affect the Hellknights at first. When rumors 
arose that a faction of rebels in Isger were gathering 
these very artifacts near the town of Breachill, the 
Order of Rack was assigned to occupy the area and 
root out those warshards. Viro was assigned to that 
company and worked ruthlessly to crush the spirits 
of Breachill’s residents. He had no qualms about 
using violence against civilians or threatening their 
livelihoods; they were, after all, simple citizens, while 
he was someone above them. As he continued to 
distinguish himself, he knew he would soon become 
a full Hellknight.
Viro was present at the execution of Reginald 
Cormoth, though a veteran Hellknight had the honor 
of wielding the blade. At this point, Viro was certain 
that the spirit of any resistance was crushed and was 
surprised as any when Eagle Knights marched on 
the town, igniting the Battle of Hellknight Hill. Viro 
fought fervently alongside his comrades and was 
outside Citadel Altaerein when it was captured. To his 
chagrin, his regiment was routed by a troop of plucky 
soldiers allied with the Hellbreakers League, the very 
group his order was sent to Isger to eliminate. He and 
a few other Hellknights fled the area but were pursued 
by League rangers. Viro survived by cowering within 
an abandoned badger den.
When he emerged, Viro discovered the body of one 
of his superiors face down in a nearby stream. His 
mind afire with thoughts of vengeance, Viro stripped 
the corpse of its armor, taking it for himself. It didn’t 
fit perfectly, too large and unyielding to his form, and 
it scratched at his neck as if telling him he wasn’t yet 
worthy of it. He told himself he would earn the right 
to wear it by crushing the Hellbreakers League, but for 
now, he would use its authority to enact a devious plan.
Campaign Role
Working with the Sisterhood of the Golden Erinys, 
Viro Ahala serves as the main antagonist for Chapters 
2 and 3. The sting of losing at the Battle of Hellknight 
Hill remains with him, and he blames the Hellbreakers 
League. Their impudence must be punished. And what 
better way to do so than to summon a devil to help 
him enact his revenge?
Thanks to a tome he finds with the help of the 
sisters, Viro has access to a ritual that can summon a 
powerful devil to empower him to finally put an end 
to the Hellbreakers. His plans have him moving deep 
into the Chitterwood, where a source of primal magic 
in the Stagfall Caves makes the perfect setting for a 
magic ritual.
The PCs learn of his involvement by the end of 
Chapter 2 and must track him through the Chitterwood 
in Chapter 3. By the end of their exploration of Stagfall 
Caves, the PCs have likely slain Viro, who’s too much 
of a zealot to surrender in a fight, especially with his 
plan so close to fruition.
However, that doesn’t have to be the last the PCs see 
of Viro. Once his soul has been judged, he returns as a 
diabolic antagonist granted to Caeto Vulaunex in the 
later chapters of the adventure. At this point, his thirst 
for vengeance has only intensified, but now the PCs 
are the main focus of his ire!
VIRO AHALA
CREATURE 5
UNIQUE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Male human Hellknight armiger
Perception +12
Languages Common, Diabolic
Skills Athletics +13, Hell Lore +10, Intimidation +12, 
Society +10, Survival +12
Str +5, Dex, +0, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +2
Items crossbow (10 bolts), Hellknight plate (full plate; 
Treasure Vault 10), longsword, minor sturdy shield 
(Hardness 8, Hit Points 64, BT 32)
AC 21 (23 with shield raised); Fort +15, Ref +9 (+12 vs. area 
effects), Will +12
HP 75; Resistances mental 4, piercing 4
Shield Block [reaction] Trigger Viro has his shield raised and takes 
damage from a physical attack; Effect Viro snaps his 
shield into place to deflect a blow. The shield prevents 
Viro from taking 8 damage. Viro and the shield each take 
any remaining damage, possibly breaking or destroying 
the shield.
Speed 20 feet
Melee [one-action] longsword +15 (versatile P), Damage 1d8+7 
slashing
Melee [one-action] gauntlet +15 (agile, free-hand), Damage 1d4+7 
bludgeoning
Ranged [one-action] crossbow +11 (range increment 120 feet), 
Damage 1d8+2 piercing
Punishing Cut [two-actions] Viro makes a longsword Strike. This 
counts as two attacks for his multiple attack penalty. 
If the Strike hits, it deals an additional die of weapon 
damage and 1d4 persistent bleed damage.
Shielded Charge [two-actions] Requirements Viro is wielding a 
shield; Effect Viro Raises his Shield and then Strides 
twice. If he ends his movement adjacent to a foe, that 
foe is off-guard to Viro’s Strikes until the end of Viro’s 
current turn.
247
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox

===== Page 249 =====
248
Calendar
Rova 4725
Wealday
Oathday
Fireday
Starday
Sunday
Toilday
Moonday
Wealday
Oathday
Fireday
Starday
Sunday
Toilday
Moonday
Wealday
Oathday
Fireday
Starday
Sunday
Toilday
Moonday
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
20
19
21
22
23
24
25
27
26
28
29
30
Lamashan 4725
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10	
11
12
13
14
15
16
18
17
19
20
21
22
23
25
24
26
27
28
30
29
31
Neth 4725
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
15
14
16
17
18
19
20
22
21
23
24
26
28
25
27
29
30

===== Page 250 =====
249
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Wealday
Oathday
Fireday
Starday
Sunday
Toilday
Moonday
Wealday
Oathday
Fireday
Starday
Sunday
Toilday
Moonday
Wealday
Oathday
Fireday
Starday
Sunday
Toilday
Moonday
Kuthona 4725
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
20
19
21
22
23
24
25
27
26
28
29
30
31
Abadius 4726
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
18
19
20
21
22
24
23
25
26
30
27
31
28
29
Calistril 4726
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
14
13
15
16
17
18
19
21
20
22
23
24
25
26
28
27
Hedvend’s 
Gala
The 
Chitterwood 
Offensive
Illcayna’s 
ritual

===== Page 251 =====
250
Pharast 4726
GM Notes
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
14
13
15
16
17
18
19
26
21
28
20
27
22
29
23
24
Wealday
Oathday
Fireday
Starday
Sunday
Toilday
Moonday
31
30
25
Firstbloom

===== Page 252 =====
251
Campaign Overview
Chapter 1:  
Against Hell
Chapter 2:  
For the Cause
Chapter 3:  
Devils of 
Chitterwood
Chapter 4:  
Into the Jaws
Chapter 5:  
Dead Man’s Party
Chapter 6:  
One Way Out
Chapter 7:  
Wight Queen’s 
Thaw
Chapter 8:  
Springing Sarini 
Manor
Chapter 9: 
The Battle for 
Saringallow
Continuing the 
Campaign
Isger
Chitterwood
Elidir
Plots of the Pallid 
Princess
Saringallow
Adventure Toolbox
Gozran 4726
GM Notes
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
20
19
21
22
23
24
25
27
26
28
29
30
Currentseve
Wealday
Oathday
Fireday
Starday
Sunday
Toilday
Moonday

===== Page 253 =====
252
Associate Publisher • Thurston Hillman
Director of Games • Jason Bulmahn
Director of Visual Design • Sonja Morris
Director of Narrative • Adam Daigle
Narrative Manager • Ron Lundeen
Creative Manager (Starfinder) • Jenny Jarzabski
Creative Directors • James Jacobs and Luis Loza
Lead Developer • John Compton
Senior Developers • Jessica Catalan, Eleanor Ferron, and 
Mike Kimmel
Developers • Bill Fischer, Michelle Y. Kim, and 
Landon Winkler
Lead Designer (Games) • Joe Pasini
Organized Play Line Developers • Josh Foster and 
Shay Snow
Pathfinder Lead Designer • Logan Bonner
Senior Designer • Jason Keeley
Designers • Joshua Birdsong, Ivis K. Flanagan, Dustin Knight, 
Costin Wilken-Schelling, and Aras Yazgan
Managing Editor • Patrick Hurley
Lead Editors • Avi Kool and Simone D. Sallé
Senior Editors • Ianara Natividad and Solomon St. John
Editors • Felix Dritz, Priscilla N. Lagares, Lynne M. Meyer, 
and Zac Moran
Concept Art Director • Kent Hamilton
Managing Art Director • Adam Vick
Art Director • Kyle Hunter
Senior Graphic Designer • Emily Crowell
Graphic Designer • Adriana Gasperi
Production Designer • Danika Wirch
Director of Brand Strategy • Mark Moreland
Owners • Lisa Stevens and Vic Wertz
CEO • Jim Butler
Chief Creative Officer • Erik Mona
Vice President of People, Culture, and Logistics • 
Maggie Gallagher
ORC Notice
This product is licensed under the ORC License located at the 
Library of Congress at TX 9-307-067 and available online at 
various locations including paizo.com/orclicense, azoralaw.
com/orclicense, and others. All warranties are disclaimed as 
set forth therein.
Attribution: This product is original game content and is not 
based on a licensed game system. 
If you use our Licensed Material in your own published work, 
please credit us in your product as follows:
Pathfinder Adventure Path #222: Hellbreakers © 2026, 
Paizo Inc.; Authors: Sen H.H.S., Jason Keeley, and Jacob W. 
Michaels, with Eren Ahn, Joseph Blomquist, Matthew Fu, 
Michelle Y. Kim, Lynne M. Meyer, Kienna Shaw, and Tan 
Shao Han.
Reserved Material: Reserved Material elements in this 
product include all elements designated as Reserved 
Pathfinder Adventure Path #222: Hellbreakers © 
2026, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem, Pathfinder, 
Starfinder, and other trademarks owned by Paizo 
are property of Paizo Inc. All rights reserved.
Produced using ecologically sourced FSC® certified 
paper and soy ink. 
Printed in China. 
You can kill a revolutionary but you can never kill 
the revolution.
Material under the ORC License. To avoid confusion, such 
items include: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper 
nouns (characters, deities, locations, etc., as well as all 
adjectives, names, titles, and descriptive terms derived from 
proper nouns), artworks, characters, dialogue, locations, 
organizations, plots, storylines, and trade dress.
Expressly Designated Licensed Material: This product contains 
no Expressly Designated Licensed Material.
Vice President of Technology • Rei Ko
Chief Growth Officer • Christian Moore
Controller • William Jorenby
Accountant • Pasha Jurgensen
Director of Sales • Cosmo Eisele
Director of E-Commerce • Lyle Borders
Sales & E-Commerce Assistant • Mika Hawkins
Director of Licensing • John Feil
Director of Marketing • BJ Hensley
Licensing Manager / Licensing Producer • Raychael Allor
Marketing and Media Manager • Rue Dickey
Community and Social Media Specialist • Maya Coleman
Convention and Organized Play Manager • Alex Speidel
Director of Project Management • Glenn Elliott
Project Manager II • Lee Aula
Finance Operations Specialist • B. Scott Keim
Digital Products Lead • Andrew White
Software Architect • Brian Bauman
Senior Software Developer • Robert Brandenburg
Software Test Engineer • Erik Keith
System Administrators II • Whitney Chatterjee and 
Josh Thornton
Web Content Manager • Maryssa Mari
Webstore Coordinator • Katina Davis
Customer Service Lead • Kait Chase
Customer Service Representatives • Summer Foerch and 
James Oakes
Director of Operations • Jeff Strand
Warehouse Manager • Matt Byrd
Logistics Coordinator • Kevin Underwood
Warehouse Distribution Lead • Heather Payne
Warehouse Team • Erick Blandin, Danielle Cavanagh, 
Alexander Crain, and Zavier Hooppaw
PAIZO INC.

===== Page 254 =====
LOST OMENS
LOST OMENS
Hellfire Dispatches
Hellfire Dispatches
Extra! Extra!
A single spark has grown into the 
Hellﬁre Crisis, embroiling an entire 
region into the war between infernal 
Cheliax and its former holding of 
Andoran. Dispatches from each 
front reveal the past and present of 
the war, along with how the future 
might be changed by the right group 
of heroes. From the front line to 
back-room intrigue and from grim 
reality to fantastical struggles, these 
dispatches cover the full range of the 
Hellﬁre Crisis.
AVAILABLE NOW!
© 2026, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem, Path-
ﬁnder, Starﬁnder, and other trademarks owned by 
Paizo are property of Paizo Inc. All rights reserved.

===== Page 255 =====
© 2026, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem, Pathﬁnder, Starﬁnder, and other trademarks owned by Paizo are property of Paizo Inc. All rights reserved.
Even More Dangers!
AVAILABLE 
NOW!
No matter how many times heroes save the day, there are always 
No matter how many times heroes save the day, there are always 
new monsters lurking around the corner. Inside 
new monsters lurking around the corner. Inside Pathﬁnder
Pathﬁnder Monster 
Monster 
Core 2
Core 2, you’ll ﬁnd over 300 monsters, including fantasy staples like 
, you’ll ﬁnd over 300 monsters, including fantasy staples like 
elementals, trolls, and all-new dragons; deadly creatures like swarm 
elementals, trolls, and all-new dragons; deadly creatures like swarm 
striders and the devastating obcisidaemon; and unique monsters 
striders and the devastating obcisidaemon; and unique monsters 
from Pathﬁnder’s Lost Omens setting like the dweomercat and the 
from Pathﬁnder’s Lost Omens setting like the dweomercat and the 
unstoppable Spawn of Rovagug! This collection is an ideal resource 
unstoppable Spawn of Rovagug! This collection is an ideal resource 
for Game Masters looking to bring new challenges to their game and 
for Game Masters looking to bring new challenges to their game and 
player characters looking for new monstrous allies to summon.
player characters looking for new monstrous allies to summon.
Second Edition
Monster Core 2

===== Page 256 =====
© 2026, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem, Pathﬁnder, Starﬁnder, and other trademarks owned by Paizo are property of Paizo Inc. All rights reserved.
AVAILABLE NOW!
When diplomacy between nations 
fails and neither side wishes to back 
down, war is the inevitable result. 
From border skirmishes to large-scale 
invasions, conﬂict comes in many 
forms—the perfect chance for heroes 
to win glory! Help steer the ﬂow of 
battle as a cunning commander, or 
defend your allies as an indomitable 
guardian. Augment your power with 
archetypes that allow you to raise a 
small battalion of undead soldiers or 
wield a personal siege weapon, a new 
larger-than-life ancestry, an armory 
of magic weapons, and rules for 
running combat alongside troops that 
you command. Golarion’s generals 
need you, so heed the Battlecry!
Report for
Duty!
Report for
Duty!
© 2026, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo gol
Second Edition

===== Page 257 =====
© 2026, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem, Pathﬁnder, Starﬁnder, and other trademarks owned by Paizo are property of Paizo Inc. All rights reserved.
Populate Your World!
AVAILABLE NOW!
Devotees of the gods, cunning mercenaries, fun-loving performers, crafty engineers, devious villains, and more all 
have roles in your game with Pathﬁnder NPC Core! Containing over 250 stat blocks for NPCs, you can drop all kinds of 
characters into your game, from merchants and farmers to masters of magic and martial arts. The NPCs are crafted to 
be fun and easy to use, with sets of adjustments to quickly change their ancestry, level, and more. You’ll also ﬁnd a trove 
of NPCs speciﬁc to non-human ancestries, like a dwarf general, goblin get-gang, and kobold egg guardian. Each section 
of NPCs is themed and includes lore, custom rules, and random tables to spice up your gameplay. Never ﬁnd yourself 
making up statistics on the ﬂy again—you can ﬁnd everything you need in Pathﬁnder NPC Core!
© 2026, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem, 
Second Edition
NPC Core

===== Page 258 =====
An Adventure Path for levels 1—9
paizo.com/pathfinder
Adventure
Printed in China.
PZO15222-HC
Revolution awaits!
A
s war sparks between Andoran and Cheliax, the Hellbreakers League rises in Isger 
to wage their own war against Cheliax for the freedom of their nation. Join the 
Hellbreakers on daring missions, murder investigations, and prison breaks as they fight 
for a free Isger. But Cheliax is not the only enemy to deal with, as ancient foes find the 
chaos of the Hellfire Crisis to be the perfect opportunity for their own nefarious schemes. 
Can the Hellbreakers protect Isger from the enemies within? Hellbreakers is a complete 
Pathfinder campaign for 1st–9th level characters.
